Okay, how's everybody doing?
We're going to get started
and so I am
I'm going to let everybody else in. So,
we got all the members of the board. So,
I'm going to start uh tonight's Town of
Andover Board of Selectmen regular
meeting for Monday, March 9th uh 2026 at
7:02 p.m. And the first order of
business is the Pledge of Allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all. Okay. And our first uh
number two on our agenda is public
speak. So I will sit there and go
around. Uh first is Liz Latch.
>> Okay, we'll come back to you, Liz. Um
Louise Goodwin,
>> I'm all set. Jeff, thank you. Yep.
Valerie Bruno,
>> all set. Thank you.
>> Joanne Heert,
>> all set. Here to listen. Thank you.
>> Okay. Bill Penn,
>> just listening. Thank you.
>> Kimberly Person,
>> all set. Thank you.
>> Tess Grouse.
>> All set, sir. Thank you.
>> Alan Hutchinson,
>> I am also all set.
>> Okay. Uh, did I miss any uh of the other
members of the public? Uh, Liz Lok,
I thought I
>> Thanks.
>> Yep, I'm I'm all set, too. Thanks, Jeff.
>> Okay.
All right. So, we're good. So, uh, we're
going to move on to item three, uh,
additions and changes to the agenda.
>> I have
One or two things. One is can we move
the discussion and possible action on
the town administrator up to the
beginning and also the um if we have the
executive session move that near the
beginning and the other thing is 8F
the discussion and possible action on
the AES RFP. I think it should just be
discussion and update because we can't
make any decisions on that. We don't
have the authority.
>> Okay.
Anybody else?
>> All right. So, I'll second that motion.
Uh we'll move um
item 16 up to uh
Let's do that right away so we can put
everybody out into hold. So, we'll move
that up to uh 3A.
One second.
So move to 3A executive session uh for
discussion and possible action on town
administrator position personnel matter.
Um,
and we will adjust
8F
to discussion and eliminate and possible
action.
Okay. Anyone else? Anything further? All
those in favor? I
>> All five of us.
>> 5.
>> Scott, you good?
Okay. Having trouble hearing you again,
Scott?
Um, and Jeff, you were good because you
were hiding under that. Okay.
All right. So, um, everybody on the
meeting, I'm going to put you guys all
in a waiting room. Um, and when we're
done with our executive session, we'll
bring you all back so that we can, uh,
also discuss that issue. Let's make sure
of one thing.
Yeah, it's under item nine. We can wait
for it, but yes, we'll discuss. Can
>> I amend that? So, members of our board
of select committee and town attorney,
>> is the town attorney with us?
>> Yes, he is.
believe so. Okay.
>> All right.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. So, everyone, I'm going to sit
there and um put you all in the waiting
room for a bit.
All right.
Dennis, which one are you?
2, three, four, five.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah, that's me. 2345.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Uh, I apologize. We're coming out of
executive session at 7:47
and um, we are taking no action at this
point in time. So, we're going to move
on to uh, item four, board and
commission presentations. I don't see
any
>> start the recording.
>> I did.
>> Did you start recording it?
Yes. Ready?
Hold on.
Okay, we good. All right, we'll have two
little breaks there. Okay, so uh there
are no uh board and commission
presentations. Uh item five,
appointments. We have no appointments.
Item six, resignations. I don't have any
resignations at this meeting. Item
seven, town administrators report. We
don't have town administrators report.
So, we're just going to go through the
old business. Um,
let's see. Uh, is there anything of
significance? The, um,
access to, uh, the majority of, uh, the
treasurer's accounts has been activated.
So, we're in a much better position
there. And we have some other issues
that we have to address. But, let's go
through old business. And if anybody has
any questions, please feel free. Uh,
item uh, eight is old business. review
the status of the veteran field
improvement. Um we have um a payment due
to Millennium Builders for uh the um u
playground equipment. That check will be
going out this week. Um since we have u
access to uh the stiff account and to
the Mnt accounts uh it will be
processed. Um
and that speaking with Christine
Arandazo this week uh she believes that
the uh project will get started uh early
in April. Um we've also received the
grant uh the legislative grant funding
has been approved and we're waiting for
our official first trunch of that money
to deal with that field. So hopefully
that will all get situated and get
started as early as possible and get
completed uh as soon as possible. Um
item 8b, review senior transportation
garage status. Um that one and Jeff, I
don't know if you have any information
on that or if you've spoken to that that
group related to that. I know that we
should probably present that one to our
um our project review committee to get
the best possible outcome for that um
for that garage. So, we'll sit there and
deal with that. Uh status of the Longill
Bridge project. Uh we've had um multiple
communications from the state. Uh I the
last I knew the state was down to trying
to pick their their candidate. um I will
sit there and send out an email to the
board letting them know which candidate
they selected out of the low biders. So
there was one there were two bids that
were under $4 million for that bridge.
And I'm pretty sure that the um
the engineering firm representing the
state had uh had looked at their
proposals and was getting ready to
select u that group. Scott, have you
heard anything related to the telephone
polls? uh the electrical pole movement
down there for the Long Hill Bridge.
Okay, nothing.
>> That one is that is what we probably
have to get started with. Um
>> item 8D, status and and please interrupt
if you have any questions. The status of
the Percy Cook Trail. Um I know that
we've gotten a design and we have uh
communication going on out with that
engineering firm to get the finalized uh
preliminary PL or the finalized plans on
that and then we have to go back to the
state and apply for that grant if we
choose to move forward with that trail.
So that one we'll sit there and go at
it. uh 8D the status of the animal
control services. NICOG who has perfor
performed our um
who has performed our uh animal control
services is sitting there and trying to
get out uh was trying to get out of the
business of doing that. And what they
decided to do was to increase fees and
um I'll ask the treasurer what were the
fees orig last last year compared to
this year for that. Do you have that
available for us?
>> Let me just take a look. Yeah.
>> Well done.
>> And I talked to Hein and they said that
uh they couldn't do that. They're in the
middle of a you know they're changing
around their public works
>> building. I knew they they were trying
to build their their animal facilities,
the one at the the one that they have
right now still needs 20 or $25,000
worth of work and they don't want to put
that money in if they're just going to
be building a new building down on Old
Grove Road.
>> I I will tell you one other thing that
um
uh we have to get on top of and I have
to get on top of. There was a
a bill that came through to the town
from um
H I think it was H and Salarin. Uh our
um
attorney Brance works for them and um
Nikk contacted them about an animal um
an animal cruelty situation that has
gone to court. And um
we have been getting bills from the law
firm for that. And I called the law firm
and I called um I spoke to the attorney
that was running the program and I'm
like you cannot continue to bill us ours
without us having communication as to
what you're billing for and what we're
doing and and we might have to sit there
and get together and go see that
resident to sit there and see if we can
get some resolution to that. But uh uh
we've had probably uh I'd say close to
$10,000 worth of legal bills that have
come related to this animal control
issue that we have to address and we
can't have, you know, as I told attorney
Brand, you have to communicate with us.
Uh because you can't just bill ours. Um
and they're they're working through
NECO. So I have a call into NECOG as
well. So that's going to be a problem.
Just letting you know there's some
additional costs that have been
pushed onto the town related to that uh
animal control issue.
>> I'm looking for it, Jeeoff. I'm looking.
>> Um I was just uh I forgot the number.
It's It's
>> It's 4215. Okay.
>> I'm just looking for what last year's
budgeted amount was. And
>> yeah, this year is
>> Yeah. 12940
and that's for 2526.
>> Yeah. And then
>> I think it was $19,000
>> that they asked for this year.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm pretty sure that's what
it was.
>> All right. So it's a a $7,000 animal
control
>> services increase. Um
so we have that to deal with. Um item 8F
discussion on the AES
uh RFP for bathroom renovations.
>> So we got some good news there. The RFP
is on our town website and the school's
website is currently open. So, finally
that job's moving ahead. And just a big
shout out to Eric Sanderson who
volunteered his time to help us write
that RFP. He was uh he was a huge help
and you know he he deserves a big thank
you from the town.
>> I agree. and let's hope uh it goes
smoothly and we can sit there and get
appropriate
financial costs on that project. So that
would be good. All right. Anybody else
related to that item?
Okay. Uh item 8 F uh not F uh G
discussion and possible action on the
Hop River Home contract. Um
does anyone want to have that at this
meeting?
I know we have to get it done and we
have to get it done before the tax bills
go out and we have to talk to them and
so make sure that we understand what
um I mean it's a lot of money for the
town and we're not really using the
field that we thought we were going to
use. So um but I would push this off to
next meeting unless anyone else has a
problem with it.
Okay. Um
item 8H, review and possible action on
the project review committee applicants.
So we did get um multiple applicants,
Ken Romeo, Adrien Mandville, Ed
Serizley, Nicholas Lacowski, Robert Roy,
Scott Legassi, and Tara Goldberg. I I
also asked Eric Sanderson, and I know he
doesn't live in town, but he has a
family in town. uh when he came into the
town offices I asked him to sign up for
this. I think this board or this group
should be as many participants as we
want it as will will actively volunteer
on behalf of the town to make sure that
we get the best possible uh use of our
money on these projects. So I have no
problem with the people that have sat
there and volunteered for this and
appointing them all to the to the board.
>> Yeah. And Eric Sander said he would sit
in on meetings if he if he was
requested. So I already spoke to him
about that as well.
>> Okay.
>> So we really don't have to appoint him
because he's really not a resident.
>> Yeah.
>> He will he will participate as needed.
>> Okay. And then the question ends up
being do we need to appoint any of these
people, you know.
Well, I guess I I'd actually feel better
about appointing them. Um because we
need as many volunteers as we can get in
this town. And I think it's good that
they have stepped up and I think we
should appoint them to this this review
committee and get started because you
know we should sit there and give them
the um the uh transportation garage and
we should give them the information we
have there and we should give them the
RFP for the bathrooms and sit there and
if anybody has any ideas of what to do I
think it would be all positive.
So
>> make a mot make a motion with the names
and with a term ending with ending like
how long do we want to make the term for
same as the other committees commissions
just renew them all at the same time?
>> Yeah. I mean we'll we'll run it to the
end of the year and then renew it at the
end of the year. I mean u I think some
of those boards have two years and some
of them have one year. I think it should
just be one year and we should continue.
I mean, honestly, Jeeoff, I would just
keep adding people if they came with
qualifications or if you found somebody
that had skills and you wanted to sit
there and bring them in.
I'd just keep adding to this.
I just think it's great that they're
willing to volunteer their time with
their expertise that they have. And
if they prove that they're not going to
participate, then the next year we just
don't appoint them to the they're not
named on the committee. So,
>> correct. All right. So, I'll make a
motion that we appoint
to the project review committee Kenneth
Romeo, Adrien Mandeville, Ed Sriley,
Nicholas Alakowski, Robert Roy, Scott
Legosi, and Tara Goldberg.
>> Second time with a term.
>> I'm sorry. For for a term for a term to
end um
today is March. How about 1231 2027?
>> Okay. For a term to end 1220 1231 2027.
>> Seconded.
>> Okay. Seconded. Uh further discussion on
that.
>> All right. We'll go through the vote. Uh
Ann, how do you vote?
Ann votes yes. Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Murray. Hi.
>> Scott Persong. Hi.
>> Jeff Magcguire. So five nothing on that.
Um
item eight, uh bank account signers. Um
the uh currently, uh on our MNT
operating account, there's only two
signers that remain employed by the
town. Um well, I shouldn't say employed,
name employed or elected. Uh, Valerie
Bruno is one of the signers and and I
shouldn't say that because
um
I am not sure if um can you give me guys
a second and give me one second? I
apologize.
Uh, I'm so sorry. Had to
deal with um deal with something related
to the town. Uh, bank signers. Um,
I have to verify this, but uh the only
two bank signers that I know on the
operating account are myself and
Valerie. Valerie Bruno. Valerie has has
stated that she would rather not sign
checks because of of uh I know she
called it a lack of fidelity. I don't
understand that word used in this term,
but that's okay. So, um she uh would not
like to sign checks and I am the only uh
check signer right now. Requires two
signers. Um I will also be um leaving um
on a family vacation starting tomorrow.
So, I didn't want to sit there and leave
the town with no signers on checks for
that 10-day period. Um
um
I had requested and I let the board know
that I wanted to sit there and have uh
Roberta Doherty, the town clerk, um
Scott Person who has time and gets into
the office and Jeff Murray to be added
as signers even if it's for a short-term
basis. Um,
I did get that submitted to U Mnt today.
I'm not sure if it's going to work, but
it's a short-term solution until we can
sit there and move forward. Um, but I am
letting everybody know the bank those
are the bank signer issues.
>> Yep. Carol,
>> what about trying the um of England
since he is the chair of the board of
finance? That seemed like it'd be a good
person.
>> And Liz Loch.
>> And Liz Loch. Yeah.
those two people.
>> Uh we can and if we sit there encircled
all the way back in the end when we
decide who we want to actually have as
signers moving forward, whether the new
administrator and when the new
administrator is positioned, um we'll
sit there and do it. All of these people
are going to come off because
right now I just was looking for a
short-term solution to be really honest.
>> Short term
>> short term just just in case. And and
Lisa will tell you, I've told Lisa, no
checks. So, and and listen, when I say
no checks, please understand, we pay our
bills so early, it's not funny. We are
not like any organization that waits 30
days for the most part. Transactions
come in and transactions go out fairly
quickly. So there will be certain
situations where we don't sit there and
um
uh process a check or uh a check may be
held because someone like myself is
looking at the details and going I don't
really think that that's appropriate.
Um, but for the most part, no one is
really waiting for the town other than
the Millennium Builders, which Scott
keeps asking me about and uh Christine
Renazo keeps asking me about related to
the playground equipment. And the only
reason that that was even held at all
was because uh we needed to make sure
that we um understood where we were from
our financial position. So,
anybody have any questions related to
the bank signers?
Okay. Um item nine, new business discuss
and act upon the following uh the 2026
2027 budget discussion. Um
um
Lisa, do you want to put up um maybe I
can put up
one second.
I can't do that. I sent it to you today
this afternoon,
>> but I'm on a different computer. Um
>> Oh,
>> let me do one thing.
Oh, and um
No, let me do one thing. So, you sent
there and sent this to me.
Okay.
So,
I'm sorry. Give me one second. There you
go. So, does everybody see this on their
screen?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> Can you blow it up a little bit, Jeff?
>> What do you want me to do?
>> Blow it up a little bit.
>> Sure.
>> Give me one second.
And Scott, I'm just gonna try to zoom.
So, if you give me a second, I'll figure
it out.
See, I'm sitting there operating on a
Mac. What am I doing?
>> Nope.
Like a right click.
>> Yeah, I know. It's a different type of
thing.
Um,
I do not know how to zoom this up.
>> I can see it fine.
>> I can see it.
>> That's exit. That's full screen. Can you
do control plus?
>> See, let's sit there and see if you
work. No.
>> Um, give me one second. I'll sit there
and see if uh
if you open with it won't get larger
up top where it says open with
or click the green button.
Yeah, that's all you could do do. It's
fine. I can see it. I just moved it
closer to me. That's good.
Okay. I went to try to get help and
she's going to sit there and Google how
to zoom. So, we're just going to go
through this.
So, um
yeah.
Okay. Sorry about that. So here here's
where we are. We have three tabs on our
preliminary budget. We have our
preliminary budget um our budget
condensed and our preliminary budget for
salaries. So um
what do you got? Turn up.
All right. I'm sorry. I I'm
technologically not advanced on the Mac
side of the world. So, um,
Lisa, if you want to walk us through
this, you tell me where you want to go
and I'll get them to it. All right. Um,
well, it hasn't changed a whole lot
since we did the joint meeting with
board of finance. Just so everybody
knows I, you know, this is the one
pretty much the same. Um, the revenues I
estimated,
um, from last year because I didn't know
if, you know, you wanted to change
direction. The only one that is verified
is a little more is the MRSA line 23 um,
account number 43800.
I have had verification on that. Um
the others are just estimated from last
year unless you want me to change them.
Um
>> are we on are we on uh course to reach
all of our revenue numbers?
>> Um let me go into QuickBooks right now.
>> I mean nothing looks off from where
we're at.
>> No, it doesn't. Um yeah, hold on.
Where'd my report go? Here it is.
Um,
no. It looks like this was as of the end
of February, your tax revenue was like
76%.
Um, your government revenues were
about about right. Um, miscellaneous was
a was
is a little low, but you never know with
miscellaneous. Um, your clerk fees are
up a little bit.
Um, they're actually 28,000 over what
was bud budgeted.
Um,
and your investment interest, you know,
you can't tell right now. I I don't It
looks like this is about right. when I
looked at it the other day with the two
accounts we get interest on, but um with
everything going on, I don't know if
that's where it'll be at.
>> And I just asked, do the clerk fees
include transfer station stickers?
>> Yes.
>> 20 something thousand?
>> So,
>> okay. I just wanted to ask just to get
that clarified because it's not really
recording fees and that. It's just a
>> Yeah, that that is something that um
where it got posted, Carol, is a
problem.
>> Yeah, because I used to when I gave the
spreadsheet, it was always separate from
clerk fees.
>> Well, I'm pretty sure that you were
there when these got posted.
So, the next round will be done.
It's just what the um treasur's office
did. So, can everybody see this better?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. I finally figured it out what I
did wrong. Apologize.
All right. So,
really from from our situation like our,
you know, we have a budget for last year
of 12.7 million and we've currently
collected 6.6 million. So, we have two
more rounds of
um property taxes and we have certain
things like the ECS money that hasn't
sat there and hit equally.
So, like if you sit here and look at
this, this is all we've collected so far
on the ECS dollars. Is is that still
accurate, Lisa?
>> I'm looking right now. I'm sorry. This
computer, my my laptop I have and it's
great, but it kicks me out if I don't
stay active in it. It kicks me out. So,
I have to go back in on the remote and
it takes me a second.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
>> another technical thing that we need to
fix that we'll get to.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. So, what did you need then? I'm
sorry. I
>> I was just wondering if the ECS funding
since we're on
if there's been any adjustment in that
in the month of February or March.
>> Yeah. Because what have you got in there
right now? You've got
>> 501 was the number at the end of
January.
>> No, now you've got a million million two
390. Is that what you're asking? Yeah.
>> Yep. So, so we got the second trunch of
that.
>> Yep.
>> To sit there and keep us going.
>> Okay.
Um, is anyone Carol besides that issue
that you addressed related to where like
the clerk fees because I had noticed
that as well. The clerk fees were
$66,000, but it was the transfer fees
were being posted to that account.
That's what I had guessed before that
that's what was occurring. So
other than that, does anybody have any
other issues with revenue?
Okay. So I do know that the um
the assessor did post the grand list
>> and I believe Lisa that there was about
a $90,000 increase.
>> Is that it went to 31977200
is what it went to.
Okay. Yeah.
>> And any and on his letter, he actually
stated the increase amount.
>> Yep. 99,117
in tax revenue. Yep.
>> Yeah.
Okay. So, you'll want to make that
adjustment.
>> As you provide this to the board of
finance.
Okay.
>> All right. So um
town administrator um
we had budgeted 100 105,000 and then we
were
all of those um um all of the salary
accounts on the town side the nonmp
employee
uh non-union side were given a 3%
increase.
Um, anybody have any issues with that 3%
for all
non-UN employees.
Okay. So
if you take our payroll from the town
side and that's what I had been trying
to work on was a and I will get it to
everyone here is um
the total cost of
employee salaries, employee benefits and
um
retirement contributions account for
about 60% of our total spend in the
town.
So, um once I can get all of those
numbers broken down for you, the the
number that we're talking about, the 3%
increase is really the critical piece of
this. Um,
anybody have a problem with that? Do we
want to make a motion to that to approve
that? Do you want to reduce any of the
the
lines or do you just want to keep going
through the list the the segments of
this this uh budget?
I'm just asking for
>> anybody's opinion as to what they would
like to do because this is the first
line you'll see it on is this line of
the town administrator. We had given a
3% increase. I I personally think for
next year because we don't know what is
the what is the number that we think
we're going to spend or we going to want
to hire the new administrator at.
I just had a conversation at $100,000.
>> And I just suggest the majority of the
applicants put in 110.
>> Mhm. So that seemed to be a popular
number with
most of them for the salary request and
I guess our range was what 92 to 120.
>> So maybe we should factor that 110 in.
Well, if that's the case, Carol, then
I'd leave the 103 there and I would deal
with if we have to hire somebody for
more money, we sit there and hopefully
we can
um find an applicant before the budget
gets finalized.
>> Okay. And then the other question was
the admin assistant. Can we put in a
20hour a week admin assistant at $25 an
hour?
Okay. So, give me one second.
So, that's $500 a week times 52 weeks
gives us $26,000.
position for that and is um
does that come with benefits?
>> If it's 20 hours, it would have to. If
you don't want it to have benefits, we
have to do 19 hours. But you you want to
get the town administrator someone who's
going to stay and has enough hours to do
what he or she needs them to do.
Okay. Um,
>> managed over there that never has been
used. Can we combine that with the
>> Well, we will admin assistant.
>> Um, that that's true. We can sit there
and accommodate those dollars. Um,
the project manager is going to be used
during this spring season with the um
with the field. So Christine Randazo has
been
>> managing that
>> playground.
>> Yeah. Um but Ann is correct. Do we need
to carry that over for the following
year?
>> Think so.
>> I think it's go together
>> makes more sense to put it into an admin
assistant. So, Lisa, why uh and and I'll
sit there and I'll make a motion to the
board that we put a $30,000 line item in
for and the T administrator admin
assistant and we uh eliminate the
project manager for the for next year.
>> Okay.
>> Can we just do that or do we you guys
want to take motions on all those
things? What what if we need a project
manager
for our next project?
>> Well, we better figure out what our next
project is. So, and you know, we need to
sit there and put some of this on the
new town administrator. So, what Eric
was doing was he had a multitude of
projects coming up. So, he looked at the
field as one that, you know, we could
sit there and sub out a little bit of
that work to free him up.
But if you're done with the project,
Scott, down at the field this year at
$15,000, what would be the project for
next year? Long hill bridge.
>> I'm not sure, but I I know that Eric was
overwhelmed with how much work he had
and he had that project manager so he
could take care of his projects.
>> Yeah, he could take care of the other
items. So right now, if I sit there and
think about what the town has undertaken
right now, you have the Longill Bridge
that's got to get dealt with, right? The
field, which will hopefully be done this
spring, the playground and the pickle
ball courts, and then you have the um
um the project at the old firehouse
for the garage.
Um, I don't think those two projects are
that I would sit there and say we need
to have a project manager for those two
projects. I think Eric was dealing with
two bridges
and and well, this is also something
this board has to decide. Are we going
to push forward within the next cycle?
We have to sit there and see what it is
the connector program from the trail up
to the school. Um,
>> always a project, Jeeoff. Yeah, I know
it is.
>> But Carol is Carol is also right that,
you know, an admin assistant for the
town administrator is a good idea.
>> But I'm I'm not saying taking taking
that out of there because the next
administ town administrator is going to
say the same thing. He needs he's got
too many projects going on or she has
too many projects going on.
>> Can I just ask one more question? Is
that do you expect to expend that 15,000
by June 30 that's in the 2526 budget?
>> Yes,
>> I I would say so that that project go
through
>> and and I would tell you why Carol
because she hasn't build us yet.
>> But is it going to be done the project
or is it going to carry on to July and
August? Because in that case we would
still need some type of funding in the
26 27. Well, listen. I don't care if we
sit there and include that project
manager there and increase the admin
assistant
if that's what
>> I would sit there and say make the admin
assistant a 25
>> would be a better idea I think. Yeah.
because if we we don't want to under
budget for that and if the project isn't
completed by the end of June then you
know if only 13,000 is expended the
other 2,000 is going back in the general
fund and we would need something for to
cover any additional bills after that.
Mhm.
>> Well, I I think it's more a decision on
this issue. Are we do we want to sit
there and and request from the board of
finance money for an assistant? And what
is that financial commitment level? Is
it 25,000? Is it 30,000? And if we we
can leave the project manager there, I I
have no problem with that.
I think we should maybe go with the
30,000 and put post the job and see what
we get.
>> Okay.
>> Uh I would uh I would hopefully
recommend that we leave
Well, let's just sit there and do it
because we're talking the budget. So, is
$30,000 the amount in the admin
assistant or is it 25,000?
>> Let's ask for 30. So, 30,000
Okay. So,
I'll sit there. We'll write these down.
So, um 5,0001 admin
I mean and so what we're what we're
going to do is we're going to help Lisa
um and we're going to make a motion on
all these
>> and you're going to leave 15,000 in the
in the project. Okay.
>> So, we're not going to change that.
Okay.
>> Okay.
So, um,
treasurer salary. Um,
I'm just going to sit there and suggest
that, um, I don't think we understand
exactly what the assistant treasurer
stipen is for. I would sit there and
tell you we need to increase the
treasurer salary to $40,000
and we should zero out the stipen.
Anyone?
>> I'll second that. Jeff,
>> we should probably know what that is.
This a treasurous stipen was who was it
put in there for? What is it for?
was put in there last year was the
stipen was given because it was felt
that she was doing a good job and rather
than raise the salary because then now
it's union contract and it will just
keep getting the 3% every year they felt
get the extra 5,000 as a stipent
>> thought it was a good idea so Christine
Christine could be trained in some of
the things that Cheryl was doing.
>> Right.
>> So then
>> and then I would
>> and it sounds like it didn't happen.
>> Did not occur.
>> So Alicia, you have that?
>> Yes. I'll sit there. We haven't voted on
any of those. So if we, you know, So,
let's go back to the town administrator
section just for a section section
second. So, I'll make a motion on the
town administrator uh uh account 4113
to increase
line 102-101
uh admin assistant to $30,000.
>> Second,
>> Carol Lee seconded. All right. And
because I'm not seeing everybody's face,
I'm going to go around. Um, Ann Crme,
>> hi.
>> Um, Carol Lee,
>> Scott, uh, Jeff Murray,
>> hi.
>> Scott Person,
I I I'm assuming you said yes.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Yes. And then Jeff McGuire. So, that's
five nothing. So, that one will get into
the minutes. And then we're going to
move down here to this next section to
the treasures section. Uh 4137.
I'll make a motion that we increase uh
item 109-100
treasurer salary to $40,000
and we reduce line 109-101
to zero.
>> Can we vote on them individually rather
than the two together? I just wanted to
talk a little bit more about the stipen
there.
>> Sure. Um
>> Okay.
>> Do you want to wait and talk about it or
do you want to just vote on one versus?
>> If we vote on each one individually,
please.
>> So, I I'll make a motion to increase um
in section 4137, treasurer financial
line item 109-100,
the treasurer salary to $40,000.
>> Second that, Jeff.
Scott Person seconded.
>> And can we just have discussion on that?
Is that okay?
>> Let's go. Yep. Yep.
>> Okay. So, just curious. I know Lisa's
been in there quite a bit. Is this Do we
have a set number of hours? Um,
does this
>> is this part-time? Is this like 19 hours
a week? What how many hours? Well, the
the hope from my standpoint is that we
would get to a a baseline. I mean, it's
just giving her an appropriate level of
money to sit there and get um
I don't think you want to ask for any
more hours because if we ask for the
hours or we give an hour number, we're
in trouble. Um,
so Carol, I think that that position
with the proper level of oversight
is $40,000 is
appropriate and probably not enough, but
we don't have enough in every issue and
everything that we want to do. So
>> I I know, but I'm just asking because I
thought that the original job
description said 26 hours a month.
That's the only reason I'm asking that.
Um,
>> I know she's
>> How about how about we say how about we
say 30 hours a month because she
probably put that in on the weekend.
>> I'm just asking. I'm just saying.
>> She works that right on the weekends,
right?
>> Yeah. So, uh,
>> does she not work? I'm just joking. I
mean, and listen, a lot of this, and I
keep telling Lisa this is no stress, and
and a lot of this is once it is
structured properly, it will get easier,
but I think what we've been missing is
um someone in the office
really
um working to promote good practices and
to uh work with the staff in that
department to um
to continuously improve.
So if you want to say 30 hours, Carol, I
have no problem if you want to ask for
additional.
>> I'm just asking I don't I don't want to
say how many hours, you know, to dictate
per month because if she's in there a
100 hours a month, we're okay with it.
No, I'm only kidding.
>> That will not happen.
I I I just think it's a you know that
position um
I think that position deserves that at a
minimum.
>> Let's see a flat rate would be
to make it to 40,000 but not specify
ours.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So So is there any more discussion
on that one?
>> No, I'm good. All right. Um,
then I'll go around again. Any
>> hi,
>> Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Um, Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
He said yes. I know he did.
>> Yeah.
>> And Jeff Magguire. So, five nothing on
that line item. Okay. And so then we had
um Carol, you want to have additional
discussion on the stipen? I I just I
don't know that it was the extra to
learn the treasurer's position. I
thought it was just extra because of the
extra work that was being done like HR,
different things like that. Um I thought
that was why the 5,000 stipen was
granted by the board of finance. So,
I don't know. I
>> we
>> I think we should maybe leave that in
there.
>> We Okay. Did because Cheryl advised us
that she was going to be taught other
things that could help her to
move to the treasures position.
>> Okay. because I thought it was the board
of finance that
>> authorized that stipen.
>> We did that. Board of selectment did it.
>> I thought I thought it was done through
Eric and Cheryl.
>> But listen, we can leave it there and
then discuss it with the board of
finance. I mean, and and we should sit
there and and um
continue to evaluate
what is being done in that office and
look at that number because that is
something that I
>> know what what is what we're getting for
our $5,000.
>> Yeah.
Which is
>> you you agree with that?
>> It can it can be left there. It is that
whole that whole office that whole
office
>> is a new Lisa is a new
>> um you know breath of fresh air and
we're going to sit there and all try to
work together and get as you know the
information the best that we possibly
can. So taking care of Lisa and the
treasurer salary is more important to me
than uh reducing the treasurer assistant
treasurer stipen.
Okay. So, does anybody else have any
other issues with anything in this
section? I
>> have a question. Maybe I don't know if
everybody else knows what it is. You
look back to 2324
and 2425 actual. The stipend is huge.
The wages is low in 2324 and then in
2425 it's reversed. No stipend, but then
the wages go way up.
>> What happened there?
>> I don't know. It was like that. So, I
don't know if maybe a line was maybe
that um stipen was added and somehow um
the description went on the assistant
wage line and should have been on the
other line. I don't know because I
wasn't here.
>> Yeah, I know you weren't
>> like it should have been in the wage
line,
>> right? I
and if that's something that was back
when it was Marina and Sherry I I and
something got mixed around there. I
don't know.
>> Um we can take a look at that.
>> It's probably not necessary to know. I
was just curious.
>> Yeah. No, those are the those are the
items that um
those are the items that are being
looked at. So, you know,
>> I think we split the cost with the
school. Isn't that correct?
>> Yeah, I know you did
>> when we had when we shared the treasurer
and the assistant to the treasurer. So,
I think that the school
maybe picked up some of the treasurer
salary. I'm not positive though.
>> Yeah.
thing.
>> We can check with
and you also you also have to remember
um
we haven't been in QuickBooks that long.
I have to find the starting date, but I
don't think it's that much before that.
>> So, um
>> Oh, well.
>> Um Okay.
Okay. Tom Clark. Uh, does anybody else
have anything on the treasures? I mean,
the other parts are, you know, software
maintenance. Anything else? Tom Clerk.
Okay. All right. Um,
anybody have any issues related to the
town clerk?
The only thing, if you can scroll down
to um restoration, I can't. Is it still
at 6,500? Okay, that should be a
thousand because what happened was the
$5,500 grant was in there and I don't
know why it changed and started in
um I forget what year that the $5,500
grant was added to that line, but we
shouldn't be taxing people on a grant
because if the grant isn't applied for,
then that money isn't going to come in.
So, it always used to be shown on a
different line. It was just $1,000 that
was on that line just to supplement the
grant for any project in the clerk's
office.
>> Okay. Um
>> Jeeoff would that it goes back to um
talking to the auditors again because we
keep hitting this this problem with with
who wants to and I'm really back to the
board of finance because it's the same
with the library brought to me last week
that they think that their $3,800 from
the friends needs to be taken off of
their budget. I've always been in the
practice of listing your entire budget
and what goes in the revenue goes in the
revenue. But it depends on what board of
finance and you want to do or the
auditors want to do.
I just had never applied it that way.
But I can do whatever you guys want to
do. That's why it's still 6500 because I
don't know if that has been resolved
with the board of finance. Yeah. How to
do that how they want to do it. So, so
just so we're clear and everybody
understands it, you're sitting there
saying if we get the $6,500 of revenue
>> right
>> Say that again, Carol.
>> 5500 because historic stock restoration
taxpayers
paid $1,000 for that line. And then
couple years ago, the $5,500 grant that
I would apply for each year was then put
on that line. So,
it's misleading to have $6,500 there
because
>> where would you spend the money?
>> Yeah, that's
>> what would you have spent it on?
>> Okay. Okay. So, the $1,000 for
restoration
is to restore anything. some of the like
the older books, the ink was fading, so
we had to have them scanned
and redone so that you could still read
the ink. Um, another time we had all of
the minutes scanned into
a program, a laser fee program that made
it easy for them to be searched. We also
took the minute books that were just
three- ring binders on regular paper and
put them onto archival paper so that
they last longer.
>> Okay.
>> So again,
the people should only be being taxed on
$1,000.
And if the clerk's office applies for
the $5,500 grant, it's a it's for
specific things
that are allowed
within that grant.
>> So if you don't get the 5,500, those
things will not be done.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. Because because I think that's the
thing. It's like with the library
there's $3,800 from the friends, but if
they don't get $3,800, does that mean
they have to forfeit things they were
going to use $3,800 for? I guess that's
the question I'm worried about that
people won't get the grant or they won't
get the donation and and then they'll
come back for money because
they didn't get the money they were
counting on, but they still have the
expense. But you're saying you won't
have the expense,
>> right? because that's deceiving to the
people taxing them for money that's
going to be coming in via a grant.
>> Well, it it depends upon if we're
putting the grant in the revenue
section,
>> correct? Because then you're not taxing
them,
>> right? So, the grant always was in the
revenue section. So, the $5,500 grant,
>> the prior treasurers would always put it
into the revenue section the following
year. And another thing with that grant,
there's two times of the year that you
can apply for it. And one, if you apply
for it in September, it would be in the
following fiscal year,
not the current one as if you were to
apply in April. So that's the only
reason I'm saying that should be out of
there.
>> Okay.
>> We know that they reapplied for that
grant,
>> right? But even if they reapply for the
>> shouldn't be in there anyways. It should
be in the revenue side, right?
>> Correct.
>> We'd have to put it in the revenue side
if they're going to apply for it. So um
I would make a mo Carol make a motion to
sit there and move it to $1,000.
All
right. I move to reduce line 117885
historic dock restoration to $1,000.
>> I'll second that.
>> Okay. Ann Carol Lee made the motion an
seconded. Uh further discussion.
Um
uh an how do you vote? Hi
>> Carol Lee.
>> Hi
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> He's waving.
>> He said hi.
>> Okay. And Jeff Magguire. I So five
nothing to reduce line. Um
>> could have been there.
>> 17885
to $1,000.
Okay.
Anything else on the town clerk side?
>> No.
>> Okay.
The tax collector. Um
Lee said, "Did you do you know where um
and and this did this come from um
uh Kate? This these numbers in the
current budget?" No, this came from
Well, I think the operating came from
Kate, but I believe that Jim actually
talked about the salary.
>> Yeah. I mean, my question is where is
she at with her classes and do we owe
her an increase? Because I know there's
been um
>> if I talk I think last week she said she
still has another class. I did I maybe
she said three classes are done but she
still has another one I think.
>> Okay. So, this is just a 3% number. And
then the question is, is that in
accordance with the union contract,
>> the 3%? I believe so. I don't have that
contract with me.
>> Okay. All right. We should take a peek
at that one and just ask Kate about her
classes to sit there and see because I
know there was a
>> one more tech class to take, I think.
Yeah, there was something Kate to try to
move her up the pay scale as she got
closer to getting her tax collector
certification.
>> Okay. And then our software is
increasing by $1,800 for QDS.
Um,
so there's an increase in that section.
The assessor's office, these are both
union contracts. So, we need to look at
that and we need to look at the
assessor's number to make sure that that
lines up with the union contract. We'll
sit there and take a peek at that.
Their software is going up 1,600 as
well.
>> Right. Did anyone have anything with the
tax collector's lines?
>> Okay. Jeeoff, I hate to interrupt you,
but we're talking about software,
>> and I don't think anybody put in in the
treasurer's line that I think we're
going to probably have a couple thousand
dollars we need to update QuickBooks
because it's expiring in May.
>> Um, so I don't I haven't had a chance to
look up and see. I think it was 2,200 or
something like that last year when I was
in Salem
because we ours was older, too.
Well, you see, my problem with this is I
don't even have one in for current
expenses.
So, I know we're going up 171. You know,
it's going up to $3,000.
>> Yep.
>> But I'd like to know where they put the
software.
So, let's look at that and we'll go back
to the board of finance on that one.
>> Okay.
Uh, did anyone have anything else on the
tax collectors?
>> Okay. The assessor's office. So, the
assessor put this in and then so his
biggest issues are the assistant
assessor and then the question ends up
being did we um,
you know, that's an interesting thing. I
know this is a union position, but is
the assistant assessor
hired at that same rate? Um,
I mean, because it is a union position.
So,
I do think that's something that we
should look at how we write those union
contracts in the future.
Um, we should probably put a sliding
scale in. I know we've never had anyone
leave, so it's only continued to go up,
but since this is a brand new person,
um,
we should probably start looking at that
as we do our union contracts in the
future.
And we need to make sure that both of
those numbers line up with this union
contract.
Okay. Um
so that's our increases to wages and
then our increases to software. Anybody
have anything on the reg on the uh
assessors?
Okay. The registars um the registars you
know have a total increase of 3.69% 69%
but the registars gave us some gave the
board of finance some information uh as
to why the registars obviously are
having additional work that they're
having to put into um related to all the
changes in the voting rules. So I don't
see any problem with any of the minor
requests that they're asking for that
total $920.
Anybody?
Okay.
Um
there's a bigger increase in our
election balance. Um we'll go over here.
So there's a pole worker increase. The
total number um
one of the larger expense increases is
related to the new tabulators that the
state required that we get for voting.
So the maintenance contract and the
licenses increased. Um
I don't necessarily know that we'll
continue to get um additional ballot
requests and hopefully that will be
under under budget and then an increase
in meals to cover all the people to poll
workers. This one is a significant
increase to the total uh budget, but um
again, it's one of those unfunded
mandates with everything that we've been
pushed down from the state and the
federal level as far as election
requirements.
Anybody else have a problem with this
one?
All right.
So the building department is all
salaries.
They're not asking for any additional
funding on any of the other line items.
Just don't total very much.
>> Can you tell me what these payroll
services are? Lisa,
>> is it the time clocks?
Let me go into QuickBooks.
Let's see.
>> And that's kind of a problem.
>> Yeah. So far, so far this year, looking
at activity this year, it's $167 a month
pretty much.
>> But why do we have $6,000 spent on a
$2,000 budget?
>> I think there's something if we looked
at this, um, there was
something asked my accountant or
something. I It was here when I came. Is
that correct? You remember that? We
we've got to get to the bottom of it and
see what exactly why it's in payroll
services.
>> Okay.
>> Because if I look in last Yeah, I could
look in last fiscal year, but it was
strange at the time.
>> So, are you saying that that's not the
balance in that account right now? 6298.
>> Oh, right now or last year?
>> Right now.
Like what's the balance in that account
right now?
>> No, I think it got moved to ask my
accountant because it didn't make sense
what it was. Several entries, remember?
I think we looked at it and we couldn't
determine what it was. So that's where
we had to move it to. So they it really
didn't look like payroll services.
>> Okay. So $167
times 12
>> down to 2004.
>> Yep.
Right. So, the amount that's budgeted
this year is closer to what it really
the true amount is. When I did this, we
were we discovered that way back then.
>> Okay. So, let's um
let's make that line item 2004. I'll
make a motion that we increase line
129315 peril services to $204.
>> Second that check. Scott seconded.
>> How much was that? Was it 169? Because
Let me just make sure that didn't go up.
>> 169 or 167? I did 167.
>> Yeah. Oh, hold on. Hold on.
It was 164 in that year, but this fiscal
year,
yeah, it's gone up to 18973 as of
January.
No, let's see. December. December it
went up to 182. It's actually a few
dollars difference. It was 167 until
December. Back in November and July to
November were 167.
>> Okay. Leave it at Leave it Leave it at
$2,000. And can you put in the notes
exactly what's that for? Because if
that's for
>> if that is for
time punch it um finger scan sections,
I'd like to know.
>> Okay.
>> We should look at that one.
>> Okay. water testing,
um, elevator service contract,
computer tech support. Is that the
increase being requested by South
Windsor?
>> Um,
hey,
>> that's everything that's in there for
last year.
Um,
>> have we gotten I thought uh South
Windsor presented us with some
>> trying to remember. Did they? I thought
they did. Uh if not, I will sit there
and communicate with South Windsor
because I want to make sure. I thought
there was something out there for South
Windsor for um
a requested increase. I mean, they only
provide us with
a day. Is it a day every other week
>> and then a half a day the other week?
So, it's only a day and a half a month.
>> Day and a half.
Okay,
we should look at that one.
>> Can I just ask a question? Why does the
percentage have changed
>> um Oh, I'm sorry. I was looking at
8,300. Never mind.
>> Yeah. I mean, none of these have
changed. They're just reovering the line
again.
>> So, like what we should be looking at is
the difference between this and this and
are we going to incur more expenses?
Right. So, and this is only through
January to see what's up. So, like the
Tala 911 dispatch, we've already paid
that bill to them,
>> right?
And obviously postage, we've reduced our
postage. That's something that we
probably could sit there and um and the
board of finance could sit there and go
after. I mean, because we may not spend
it. And then the electricity, are we
doing a better job with our electrical
rates? I mean, we we have 5,000 for this
building out of a $13,000 budget. Um,
and and actually, you already lowered
the budget on this because
it forecasted it out for the rest of the
months. So,
>> right,
>> we've done a better job with our
electricity. So the
this account, it's a town office
building account is, you know, we're
decreasing it and we possibly could
decrease it even a little bit more if we
looked at these current expenses harder.
Like we need to look at what's in this
one obviously. Um but you know, we'll
sit there and
get through it. Nothing else jumps out
at me as far as
>> Can I just say something about the
postage?
>> Sure.
>> Don't forget we have all the bulk
mailings that we have to do for the
budget and that all comes out of the
postage. So, it wouldn't be expended
yet.
>> Yep.
>> But it will be.
>> Okay. So, we're gonna have an additional
hit in the last quarter of the year,
fiscal year to sit there and pay that or
to
>> Right. And I think the assessor's office
mails out, I don't know if what they
mail out, but a couple times of the year
they have big mailings, too.
And the tax collector delinquent
notices.
Okay.
>> All right. our advertising budget. We're
pretty we're getting close for this
year. Um we'll probably go over in that
one. So in the year before we were at
8,200
and we had the budget decreased. So
we're probably going to go over budget
again. Um
I would leave it at the $6,000 and we'll
sit there and deal with that. This
insurance here, this is just the Kerma
number. Is that accurate, Lisa? Yes. No.
>> Wait. Yes. Yeah. It's not the health
insurance if that's what you're asking.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. That should be in the next
section. So, this is Kerma. So,
>> so Kerma,
>> we budgeted $122,000.
We're right now at 95,000, but they came
up from 114. So, have you gotten a
notification from Kerma as to where
they're
>> No. And that's on my list, too. I've got
it all. In fact, I did I think I wrote
to Kerma again last week and said,
"Where are we at?" because we asked for
a three-year quote for the workers comp
and we have not heard back from them.
>> All right.
>> Yeah, I did write to them last week,
emailed them.
>> Okay. So, um
we're probably going to be under budget
on this number. this number that you're
requesting for this is done based upon
the estimated um payroll moving forward.
Is that accurate? Okay.
>> Yep.
>> Can we sit there and really look at this
number, this line item? We've got to get
a an opinion as to unemployment.
Like that's not unemployment comp,
that's unemployment taxes. like these
two are actual taxes paid by the town on
employee pay. So that's
for
lack of a better term that's the company
portion of the social security Medicare
and that's the company or town portion
of unemployment taxes paid to the state
of Connecticut. I have a problem with
that item. We need to look at how it's
currently being handled. Um,
>> and what and what about it? Don't you
like, Jeff?
>> Um,
>> don't you just write unemployment comp
tax next to it?
>> No. What I'm after, Scott, is I'm not
sure the town
has to be paying in that manner. But
that's something that's been going on
and we just have to deal with how it's
set up. So, I have a there's two ways I
I understand that towns can do it. You
can pay unemployment taxes or you can
pay for unemployment
that your you pay out to your employees.
And to be really honest, Carol, when's
the last time we laid a person off in
the town of Andor?
>> I don't even
>> co was it maybe co if they cut back in
>> the town was very generous. They paid
everyone their salary
>> all through co
>> so they were very generous with
everyone. Yeah.
>> So, we'll have to sit there and look at
that. Uh, health insurance. This is the
um um we're going to be underneath this
number this year simply because we had
so much um so many changes in employee
employees and what their costs were.
So, we have to sit there and look at
this one. Uh but
>> can I just ask a question on that? We
used to list under each department
health and dental insurance and it was
just for the last maybe three budget
seasons that we do this in one big lump
sum. M
>> I I just think we should go back to
putting them under each department
because we have a handful of employees
who actually take the health insurance
and then we have a handful who take the
what is it 65 or $7,000 stipend for not
taking it. So, I I just think it would
be more clear to put it under each
department rather than have that
large amount.
>> I I I agree with you, Carol, but to be
really honest, this has always been the
way it's been done since I've been
engaged. I tried at one point in time to
put it into each um
each section according to a department
and it didn't fly with the auditor and
it didn't fly. It just I mean I I did
try that. Um
>> but why was it
>> I would tell you I would I would tell
you that um what I had been working on
to try to organize the information would
be a document that would sit there and
say here's compensation for each
department and here is the related
health insurance uh and um MURF
contributions related to that department
and then that way we would understand
how that number gets broken down by
department. We should see that. I I um
that is what I had tried to work on
because you know as I said at one point
in time a payroll and payroll related
costs are easily in excess of 50% of our
total budget. So health insurance um all
of those uh you know when you sit there
and you take health insurance and you
take the MV those two right there in the
budgeted are totaling up to $375,000
or thereabouts. and our payroll is about
101,000. So, uh 1.4 million out of our
$2.5 million is strictly related to uh
employees,
>> but up to three years ago,
>> it was listed per department. So, I
don't know why would the auditor have a
problem with us going back to that
>> because we did it that way for years. We
can ask, but honestly, Carol, I don't
think that's correct. I mean, I'm we I
think you and I will disagree on what we
remember the line items being. They I I
remember walking into this going, "Here
was an employee benefit big big mass of
information, and I had wanted to sit
there and break it down by a department,
and
I was told that's not how they do it in
municipal accounting."
>> Yeah, we didn't do it that way in Salem
either. And I will tell you, Carol, that
it often doesn't ring true when you do
it that way only because you have so
many personnel changes of marriage,
children, leave, people leaving, people
coming on. It's a constant change with
who's taking the insurance and who's
not. Are they going family, single,
joint? It it's just such a big variable
that trying to do it by a percentage of
change usually works better than that.
>> Yeah, you're better. Um um and Carol,
I'll show you. I'll send you what I had
built for. I just don't have the MURF
contributions right now.
>> That was the one component of this all
that I was trying to get done is to try
to get the MURF retirement lined up
to the individual employees.
But if you go back and look at the 2324
budget that is posted online
>> and just go under town administrator
and the health dental insurance is
listed there along with retirement murf
along with social security and Medicare.
>> Is it listed for all departments Carol
though or just the
>> Yes, it is. Yes, it is
>> because I know often the superintendent
sometimes will they'll list like parts
of their contract, but I haven't seen it
before in the other departments.
>> So, I'm I'm looking at the treasurers
now there and town clerk. We were all
listed so that everyone in town has a
true picture of what each department is
costing them.
I I have no problem if we can get that
done to
it's just how we do it. So, um let's sit
there and circle back to that one and
and that's an operational change that we
would need to make and we'd need to get
um
aligned with the auditor.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
So, this is actually the fee. I think
this just got paid. And can we make sure
that that went into the correct account?
I never saw that there before, Lisa.
>> All right. It just kicked me out again,
so I have to get back in there.
>> All right.
>> Anybody have any other questions on the
employee benefit section?
>> Where were you at, Jeff? Uh this one
line item, you know, this um
>> Oh, the admin fee.
>> Admin for the MURF fee.
>> Yep. You want me to look into that?
>> I'm just not sure that that got into
that account.
>> Okay, hold on.
>> Because I think you and I looked at it
and we think I think it came out of u
>> Murf itself instead of the admin.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. Let me take a look. All right.
>> I'm just signing on, resigning.
Okay. um
community center. What do we want to sit
there and do with the community center
as far as um
employment employees? Uh and I'm asking
more. Do we want to add more hours? Um
what is everybody's take on where the
community center is and where it's
going?
I just heard we uh hired a new
transportation coordinator.
>> I I believe that's correct. Yeah.
>> Okay.
My question is we used to have a 26-hour
director
and a town assistant for a total of 36
hours.
Now, we've got a 26-hour
director
and a 19-hour assistant, plus another
10-hour
driver co or, you know, bus coordinator.
So, that adds up to
55 hours. So, we went from we added
about another 20 hours at the community
center.
>> Okay.
about what Eric wanted initially wanted
60.
>> Well, I I guess I I understand that
that's true and there's def definitely
reasons why we did that and the question
is what do we want to do moving forward?
Do we want to sit there and and
I personally look at it and I go it's is
if we're not
I believe that it is being
a service to the residents and and what
I'm after is is anyone hearing anything
negatively related to it and then if we
do that and we know we have a contract
with or a contract that's expiring with
the director director for 26 hours and
we had the assistant that's at 19 hours.
What would we want to make the rate for
that assistant?
And
personally, I think having a driver
coordinator is really the right thing to
do.
And and I don't know if anyone else has
heard negative negative issues related
to the driver coordinator, the previous
driver coordinator or this driver
coordinator.
All I hear is positive things.
>> Yeah, very positive for that. I think we
probably need to cut down the hours on
the assistant because that's a lot lot
of expense there.
>> I don't necessarily
>> very close.
>> I think we need
>> close to the same number of hours. I
think we need to change the hourly rate
on the assistant and
I would like to keep it because it gives
you coverage.
>> What's the hourly rate difference then?
That doesn't say on the
>> budget.
I know you said you need a driver uh
coordinator, but I'm just I'm just
asking the question of why that couldn't
be rolled rolled into the assistant
role.
because we've got way we've got way more
hours than we had originally. We have
>> 10 or 11 more hours than we had before.
It's not what we asked for initially,
Jeff. The board of finance reduced those
hours from what Eric wanted.
Well, they reduced it from
whatever the
what did he put in for originally?
50,000 or 60,000 and they reduced it to
50,
but they didn't have an assistant in
there
and they didn't have a driver
coordinator.
Um because originally the director
did it all.
But what what what is the hourly
calculation for the 19-hour a week
assistant? Did did you do that, Jeff?
>> I I was trying to look to see I don't
have that. That's not in the payroll
summary that's available.
>> That's what I'm saying. Is not in there
because I don't Is it a brand new
position? No, it's in Haley Proto.
>> Oh, I thought you meant the driver. I'm
sorry.
>> Well, we want to know the hourly rate.
>> Isn't that under instead of community
center, is that under the senior
program? Why am I thinking that? Let me
just take a look
if that's where it went.
>> So, if you're still um
>> doing 19 hours a week for the community
center assistant,
>> Yeah.
19 hours a week it would be $1167
an hour.
>> Well, the question is what do we want to
make if we made let's sit there and say
we have all these positions. Um
uh
one second I got to get one more piece
of information.
Yeah, it's over in it's over with senior
citizens. Instead of being in the
community center, it's listed over um
page 17 of 21 in the book and it's got
Andover senior transportation.
But as far as the assistant, there's a
resident services coordinator, but it's
only $6,000 a year. That is for the
community center director to serve as
municipal agent to the elderly
>> and social services director.
>> Yep.
>> Agent,
>> right? And the line it says dispatch and
drivers and that includes the
transportation coordinator.
assistant.
>> Okay. So,
>> can I I I got to uh
I know this was a problem and it's
something Lisa that I'm going to have to
ask ask you to do is like what wages are
in the wages of the director line like
um
>> let me see let me go back and I've been
trying to get a list by department by
person by department what their hours
what their rate is and how many hours a
week they I've been trying to pull that
together since I got here and I can't
get any answers. So, I did I I watched
Chris do payroll for the first time
today.
>> So, I'm I'm because I think it would be
really helpful here if I knew how many
hours people worked. Um and I but I will
look and see what is in that line.
>> Okay. and and and and what I'm after is
um
>> so I think what that is a community
center assistant was originally when it
was just 10 hours a week at $20 an hour.
So this was before the driver dispatcher
was put in. So the commu So the director
would do
the dispatching of the drivers and the
community center assistant helped with
senior lunches
and things like that, but that was only
10 hours a week at $20 per hour.
>> So it looks like that line still has the
10 hours a week at 20 an hour.
>> Yeah, but what I'm saying is that's
that's not reality. Carol, because we
know that we've had two um
the assistant was getting paid. Um
so, so listen, my my my mind would be
the assistant, and we should put this in
the budget. The assistant, I would I
would want to sit there and keep all
three positions. That would be me. I
think it's flowing well. I think the
seniors are getting, you know, some
value to um uh having coverage there
more often and the community center and
the senior center appears to be getting
used more. So that would be my opinion,
but I would sit there and reduce the
hourly rate on the assistance. So, if
the if the um
if the director is being paid 34 hours a
week, I would have the assistant get
paid 19 hours of the week, but I would
change the hourly rate from what is
currently being paid down to $25 an
hour. And because I believe the driver
the rate that the 10-hour coordinator is
getting paid is the same rate that the
drivers get paid, which I believe is
$20.71.
Something in that ballpark.
So, um, $2061.
>> I'm sorry, my quick voice keeps
freezing.
>> Yeah, it's fine. So, um, it's a question
for the board. Do we believe that the
director
at 34 hours is is is has enough time and
do we want to sit there and keep an
assistant for and how many hours do we
want to keep that assistant for? And
then if we do the driver the the driver
coordinator,
you know, does that make does that make
sense? The one thing that I don't like
and and Lisa I I don't know what is the
what is the revenue generated by the
community center and how can we tell
that number?
I don't know where
I haven't had time yet to track like if
there's a class or something to see
where that goes where that revenue goes
into. It's being deposited into a
liability account that used to be
labeled senior lunch.
>> Well, like even wreck activities, not
even senior activities, but like wreck
activities. I' I'd like to see the flow
of that and I haven't had time to look
at that yet.
>> Okay. So, we'll sit there and get to all
that. The question ends up being, okay,
what if we sat there and reduced the
assistance hours to 15 hours a week?
I believe you should probably think of
keeping the driver coordinator at 10
hours a week and then you leave the
director at 34 hours a week.
>> So I don't believe the director is 34
hours a week.
>> Not what is it?
>> No. 26. I believe
>> Tess is
is Tess still
>> agreed that it was her her her thing was
26 hours plus six for the municipal
assistant municipal agent.
>> Well,
>> 26 and six.
>> It's 32,
but I thought it was 30 hours a week. Um
it in here it looks like both Haley and
Tess are going into that figure.
Let's see.
But we're over that amount is up to
57,000 right now. So it's over 22%
um currently like in in like as of now
as of March. Let me just go in and look
at and Linda Derek is going into the
assistant line.
>> She shouldn't be.
>> Well, I
dispatch.
>> I don't know. That's the line she's
being put into. Like I said, I haven't
even looked at payroll and today was the
first day I could see it. And I still
don't have a list yet from payroll to
show number of hours and where they're
where it's going.
But that's what I see in there presently
is um both Haley and Tess are going into
director
and
$7,000 so far to Linda Derek.
>> So
um
>> okay so we have to sit there and
identify who's being categorized where
but let's just talk in global terms. So
if there's 26 There's 26 hours
for the director.
>> She has six, Jeff.
>> Well, she has six, but it's it's
>> for the municipal agent.
>> It's not budgeted there, though.
>> Yeah, it's down in the seniors.
>> So, I'm just dealing with that line item
for the budget.
So,
the only thing that concerns me is I
believe there's a stipen for health
insurance.
I need to look at that and where that
would go.
Um,
I think what this board needs to do
before we sit there and pass this to the
board of finance on Wednesday is look at
this one and go, are we okay with the
hours? I mean to me 26 hours for the
director just for the director and and
don't take the other money from the
municipal agent into account 26 hours at
$34 and but that's going to adjust based
upon that would adjust potentially based
upon 3%. 26 hours for the director, 15
hours for the assistant and 10 hours for
the transportation coordinator. they
don't really think is outlandish for
trying to run a building that actually
should probably stay open more hours
than even the town office building.
>> And it does, right?
>> Well, it should. I mean,
>> it should be open more.
>> I mean, I know we have a lot of
volunteers that come in and do stuff,
but that's what this board needs to
decide if those hours are out of line.
And if you think they're out of line,
then we need to adjust the budget.
Anybody?
>> Why can't they be open on Fridays?
>> Are you asking?
>> I think they are half a day. They have
people come in for crafts and things
like that. So,
I think they are on Friday. I
>> think they just started that or
something.
>> But again, I'm just asking the same
question. Yeah, I'm just I mean also I'd
like to see it open, you know, more
hours myself.
>> So, you're saying to change that
community center assistant line 15 hours
a week, 25 hours, $25 per hour?
>> That's what Yep.
>> Okay.
And did you calculate that out?
>> It's not adding hours, Jeff.
Uh, I'm probably Well, see, this is
where this is a little screwy because
both people are being put under the
director wages right now.
So, when we're doing payroll, we're
putting both
>> Sorry,
>> yeah, they're both in the same bucket.
So, it's not, you know, you're not
looking at the community center
assistant and seeing the right amount of
money that would you would want pushed
there. So, if
If I sat there and said it and you had
52 weeks, you would put, you know,
$19,500
under the assistant
>> and then you would put the amount of,
you know, the prior budget, right? So,
the 2025 budget, so the $47,000
was the total that we expected to spend.
And that could be with um
let's sit there and do that math. Times
26 time 52
40. So
um you know we put the budgeted $47,000.
The number should be about 45968
in total based upon an hourly rate of
$3426.
But there's a 3% increase. So,
>> $35.81
with the increase.
>> Yeah, I would think you'd be looking at
something like $47,500
in a budget request with a 3% increase.
But the one thing that bothers me, and I
don't necessarily have an answer for
anybody, is where is the where where
have the insurance stipens been put?
>> I think they're all listed under the
insurance employee benefits.
That's why I'm saying if we put it under
every department, and I know you agree
with me, Jeff, it gives a really clear
picture.
Yep. I I I agree. I mean, because I'd
like to know I'd like to know um
um I would like to know if that
what the department in total cost us.
Just like you said, always wanted to
know that.
>> So,
um I think this discussion though is
does just think hours. Does 26 hours, 15
hours and 10 hours work for the group or
not work for the group?
>> I think it does.
>> Okay. Then
our current reduction and it's not a
reduction from current spend but we
would be reducing our um
our assistant
you know the community center assistance
wage u um hourly rate $25 an hour.
Does anybody have a problem with that?
>> No, that's fair.
>> Okay. And then the driver coordinator's
hourly rate would be $20.61,
which matches up with the drivers. Does
anyone have a problem with that hourly
rate?
>> 20 or 21?
>> $20.61.
>> Now, that might have to be we might have
to that might have to get adjusted
slightly based upon
the 3% increase because I think I'm
using the number from last year.
Does anyone technically have a problem
with that or a 60cent change to that to
$20 $2120?
>> Okay.
>> So, are we going to vote on the
community center assistant being 15
hours a week at the 25
Yeah, I I would I would sit there and
>> Okay.
>> and
you know, so if we sat there and said
it's
25* 15*
52,
>> you said 19,500.
>> So, um,
so just so we're we're all clear, we're
not going to adjust the the wage line on
the director right now because that's
just taking in the 3% change.
>> Right. Right. So, I'm going to make a
motion that we uh adjust from section
line 318101
community center assistant. Uh we
request the budget for next year to be
$19,500.
>> Second.
>> Carly seconded. Discussion.
Uh Ann Cray, how do you vote?
And did I miss you?
>> Did I?
>> Hi. Okay. Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> Hi.
>> And Jeff Magcguire. ISO 5 nothing on
19,500 for that line item.
>> Okay. Um,
>> but you're leaving the director 48410.
>> Yes.
>> That 3%. Okay.
>> Y.
>> All right. And then we go through
um
>> all of it under the community center.
>> Say that again.
>> Keep going.
>> So, actually, let me type this in here.
And she put in for money for software
this year.
>> Uh has she actually got a grant?
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> Oh yeah.
>> She got a grant to fund the uh software.
So we're not going to um I believe that
was what I was told. Um
>> that could be used for that
budget there. It says software
right there. Yeah.
So Jeeoff, is that something you have
found out before I got that 6200 number
from her or is that after?
>> Hold on. I'm trying to look at this.
>> Yep.
>> Where's the software request? Is it in
>> office supplies line
>> 207?
>> Yep.
>> Yeah. Way down lower, Jeff. Right there.
You just passed it.
>> This one. right there.
>> That's it.
>> Yeah. Software
>> over to the right incl
Um, I'm going to sit there and make a I
mean, I'm going to make a motion that we
um we reduce the office supply line to
$800. So, I'm going to make a motion
that we reduce line 318-610
office supplies for the community center
to $800.
Anybody going to second that? Because
they did get a grant to pay for that
>> office supplies for software.
>> Are we positive that they received the
grant
>> to cover that software? Can
>> can we ask
>> what is
>> what is the office what encomp what's
encompassed there? Office supplies. We
don't know.
I see what you're saying, Jeff. But
>> all right. Well, let's ask Tess to to
talk because she's on this meeting.
>> Yep. Tess, if you can.
>> There you go.
>> Can't see it because I'm on the screen.
So, uh, please ex explain to the board
of selectmen the issue related to the
the grant for the software. Yeah, we
applied for the MGP grant and uh that
was $10,000 and we can apply for that
for the next three years. We will get
$10,000 each year and the first year we
will it will be going to the grant
towards the grant and so um
>> explain the explain the grant purpose so
everybody understands.
>> Yeah. So the grant is for
transportation. you can use that towards
um uh salaries and $1,000 of that
$10,000 can go towards administration.
Um we asked if that could go towards the
software because the software would be
going in the transportation vehicles and
it was um it was approved and they're
just doing the paperwork. They did say
that it would get approved and we should
get that money um I would assume we
would get that money um by April if not
by the end of April.
>> So you're okay with us taking that out?
>> I am okay with you taking that out of
office supplies?
>> Okay.
>> Uh I I do. However, um I I will say that
um we would like a computer or not a
computer, excuse me, a printer um maybe
a black and white printer in the
transportation assistant office um as
well. And so that might that might be
maybe $300 maximum.
So, can you afford can you afford that
out of your $800 or
>> or under the equipment?
>> E either either or um that's something
that we do need. So, um either this
fiscal year or um next.
>> Okay. So, let's do it this fiscal year.
>> Is there a printer in the community
center currently?
>> Uh there is one in there, but um we we
do we do a lot of printing. I I would
say we do a lot of printing just in
black and white. We do have to go next
door for color. Um we are going to be uh
lowering the uh color printer and the
use of the color printer next door
because we do have um somebody that is
printing our newsletters and our um and
so it's just flyers for next door.
>> Just questioning what kind of printer is
that? Is it a Wi-Fi printer or is it a
network print?
>> It is I believe it is a Wi-Fi printer.
Yep. So, you should be able to print
from any machine
via Wi-Fi.
>> Um, yes. So, the printer is in my office
and um just looking for a printer for
the assistant and the transportation
coordinator. They are sharing an office
currently.
>> Okay. Well, my thing was if you could
just you guys could share the printer.
It's pretty easy to set up a printer for
multiple machines. That's why I was just
questioning it. Um, yeah, the assistant
isn't always in the office when I'm
there. And so, um, it would just make
things easier so that, um, the assistant
isn't always in my office when I'm not
there. And, um, yeah, we just figured
that, um, that would just make things a
little bit easier.
>> Okay. And you have, uh, two computers
that are good computers.
Um,
we have only one computer for the
assistant. Um, I do have an outdated one
that's actually broken. I'm hoping to
get that printer um delivered
soon
and um yeah,
>> you're you hoping you've already
computer the computer or
>> the question
a new computer for myself. It was in my
line item or it wasn't my budget. So, I
did um order a computer and it hasn't
come in yet.
>> Oh, okay. Will it be in before the end
of this fiscal year? So, you'll take it
out of this current budget?
>> Yes, I'm hoping I did order it maybe
last month or the month before.
>> Oh, is it a special order? It takes a
little while to come in.
>> Um, I don't quite know the answer to
that. I do know that I am working with
the IT department with uh Steve and
we're just waiting waiting for that to
come in.
>> All right. Very good. Thank you.
>> You're welcome.
>> Okay. So, um so I'll second that, Jeff.
>> Okay. So, we'll second the reducing the
office supply total online
uh 318610
to $800.
>> Okay. So, Carol Lee seconded that. Uh
Ann, how do you vote?
>> Hi.
>> Um Caroli,
>> hi.
>> Uh Jeff Murray,
>> hi. Scott Person.
>> Hi,
>> Jeff Magcguire. I so five nothing on a
reduction of line 318 610 to 8 to $800.
Okay.
Sorry, wrong buttons.
Okay. Um,
town garage. Um,
we're obviously doing slightly better on
electricity. Um,
we need to look at that fuel oil
line again. Um,
I would hope the whole geopolitical
thing is over before this budget would
take effect, but um,
did we
>> we have to address
>> Did we lock in our price is my question
>> and I believe we did, but
>> I believe we did too, but I don't have
>> Yeah, let's verify that just so we're
good.
>> All right. Um, does anybody have any
problems with the budget on this section
submitted by Eric?
software for the fuel tank in there.
>> Isn't that part of capital? No, you're
talking about what he's going to talk
about in capital.
>> It has to be redone. It had to be
redone, you know, two years ago, but we
didn't finance it. So,
>> um, actually, Scott, I'm going to
recommend that we take it out of
building maintenance this year
>> and and let's let's see if we can do it
within this 2025 2026 budget.
>> If
>> soon they're not going to be able to
keep track of the fuel coming out of
there,
>> you know, but if does anybody have a
problem if we sit there and try to
utilize this money that's left in this
building maintenance?
>> It's a good idea. I mean, I have to find
out if he has anything planned to do
down there, but if not, I would sit
there and say it would be a wise use of
those funds to sit there and update
that software.
Anybody have a problem if we sit there
and look at doing that?
>> No. using the money that's in this
current fiscal year, but then put it
again next year.
>> Um, we would just leave the building
maintenance there to sit there and do
building maintenance. But if that
building maintenance fund is available,
we might as well sit there and try to
buy the software to update the uh the
tank and the you know, it's it's
basically the pump, you know, to uh
>> it keeps track of how much fuel is
coming out of there.
>> Yeah. coming out of the tank.
>> I think that's a good idea, but I'm just
curious why we would still fund at the
if we haven't been using it. Do we have
like
track I know I see 2425.
>> I think part of the problem, Carol, is
we just had, you know, uh a change
there. So any maintenance that might
have been on the agenda got pushed back
because Eric was trying and he might
have something he he needs to do. So,
uh, us thinking that we might use that
money for the software is
we're going to have to figure that out
if it will work.
>> I think he's starting to work on those
brick walls down there, too.
>> Yeah, I mean, he is he he and his team
are doing a pretty good job. They
>> kind of got smacked with all the snow
and uh
>> there has been some money spent just
since that came out because in I just am
pulling it up now.
Um,
he got some overhead doors it looks like
for $1,600.
>> Okay.
>> And he got ceiling H something with
Corbett HVAC.
Um, ceiling hung. I don't see the rest
of the description here.
>> So, it looks like he is using it a
little.
>> Let me ask Eric what would be most
important to him and see if we can do
it. And if not, um, I'll sit there and
I'll go back to the board of finance and
ask for something to be added somewhere
related to that.
>> Be taken care of, though.
>> Yep.
Okay. Um, anybody have anything uh with
any of the other line items for the town
garage?
Okay.
Old Town Hall um building maintenance
alarm system. Um
I did get a request um
from Kathy D. Rogers on the old town
hall and something they were looking at
doing, but I do believe that she was
going to sit there and work toward doing
some kind of um
uh donation request, sit there and get
something done. But we should, and this
is not for this year and not for next
year, we should look at the old town
hall as a renovation project and we
should sit there and probably apply for
grants to sit there and do it. So, old
firehouse, are we really still paying
for electricity there?
>> Okay.
>> Yep.
I
>> mean, that's
>> $67 a month, it looks like. something
like that.
>> Okay, we should look at that.
Uh the annual audit and actuary
services. We've got these um this
requests these requests for dollars were
um
have we gotten anything new from the
auditor?
>> No, I did ask them if it was a single or
multi-year contract. He said it's a
single year. That's all he quote. That's
all he commented on it. He didn't give
me any price or anything.
>> Okay. I I would sit there and say that's
um
okay
well we should leave those in but also
verify with them if there's going to do
any changes. Um this this line item for
the town attorney and the legal
retainer. Um
I don't believe all of that goes to
attorney O'Brien,
but because uh and and I'm just telling
you there's a lot of stuff that's going
on and it's going to come down the road
and and attorney O'Brien needs to get
more money. Um we have uh coming up in
this year and it's a question of do I
ask attorney to O'Brien to do it or do I
ask other attorneys to do it. We have uh
a whole set of easements that have to be
drafted and written uh related to the um
um
>> I can't remember. Um no, it's the um
it's the Brook on Lake Road, Bzola. um
off of Bazora Road. I think I want to
say Cheni, but
I think it is Cheny Brook. Um there are
probably seven easements that need to be
drafted with uh the residents in that
area. Um and it's a question of do I go
to attorney O'Brien and ask him to do
that? And if I do, do we pay him
separately or do we just sit there and
up his retainer and and pay him more
than he's currently getting?
I would tell you he deserves to get paid
$20,000 and that's probably still not
enough for all the time he puts in with
us.
>> No, he works.
>> I asked I asked him to keep track of his
hours just so people would realize how
many hours he really does work.
of that 10,000 only half of that is to
him only 5200 of that is to him the
other part of it is to Kanan Escalera
and male
okay so that was related to our
personnel issue um
and what so so you're saying the current
expenditure of $10,029
>> he's only been paid for two quarters he
has not been paid for the third quarter
of the retainer yet.
>> And what was what was the the the
semianual or the halfyear number? 5,000
what?
>> Yeah, it's 2625 a quarter. So it's what?
5250 for half a year.
>> Gods
are 400 an hour.
>> $10,500.
Well, my my my recommendation or my
request still still probably stands he
should get paid $20,000
and and the question ends up being okay
if not if not that if not that then what
will happen and I will sit there and
probably push some of the work that's
coming down the road on especially on
those easements to some other attorney
and then we're going to have to raise
the fees somewhere else. So, it's going
to come out someplace. So, I guess
that's what I'm asking is what is
everybody's appetite for providing
attorney O'Brien an increase?
and we just keep him where he's at and
then if we've got other, you know,
abnormal conditions,
we can discuss that as a, you know, on
an ad as needed basis.
Where am I getting it from?
>> Well,
I mean, those those fees should probably
come out of the projects
because that's a project expense with
that project.
So if something happens, you know, you
should you should take that money out
and it should be paid as a separate line
item.
>> So what you're recommending is we sit
there and go to the to the bridge
>> and we sit there and put it through the
bridge program and say the legal fees
here are the legal fees related to the
bridge program.
>> Correct? Because it's an actual expense
that you have to do to complete the
project
>> and that gives the people a true picture
of what these projects cost.
Uh, let me find out if I can do that.
>> You should be able to. I mean, that's a
project cost.
>> Uh, I have no problem in sitting there
trying to put that through. I still
think you should pay him more. I should
sit there and I'm just telling you, you
should get it to if it's a 10,000.
It's a 10,000
2625.
>> You have to, you know,
attorneys get paid 400.
>> Get it. Put it to 12,500.
And so I'll make a motion that you
increase attorney O'Brien's retainer to
12,500.
It's that's a $2,000 increase, which is
a pittance for the amount of work that
he has done and he's going to end up
having to do for the issues we're going
to face.
>> He would only have to work 40 hours to
even it.
>> He worked 40 hours on the opinion
related to the
>> This is ridiculous.
>> So anyway, he he he deserves it. I'm
just telling you I I don't I don't I
don't believe that the residents
understand how much Attorney Brian does
in the background to assist our little
town.
>> Is our labor
>> our labor attorney is in the number the
10,00029.
>> Okay. What Chris said in the 10,00029
was attorney male for
give me a second $5,000.
So 2625*
2 means that attorney O'Brien was 5,250
out of that number.
>> Right?
>> 1029
means that attorney male for the
personnel issue was $4779.
So, this is all legal except obviously
for planning and zoning and that they
have their own legal line.
>> Yes, I believe you're correct. Which
>> and the only other one that has their
own legal line is the assessor.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. The assessor can't use at I
thought attorney Brian helped with some
some of the assessor issues.
>> If I remember correctly, Carol, I'm not
sure that the assessor likes to use
attorneys that aren't related to
the
specialty of his work.
>> Okay.
>> I'm not sure how much he used this year.
Let's go back up and look at this. His
His line was right under Dennis's line.
>> The assessor's attorney. It's not not in
the assessor.
>> Assessor legal was right under
>> right under Dennis's line.
>> Let's go. What has he spent? I thought
it would be under
>> It doesn't really show it. It was
>> He might not He might not have spent
anything this year.
>> Yeah, there wasn't anything spent yet
this year,
>> which is surprising to me. Carol,
because we have a lawsuit that's been
going on,
>> right? And the um when the BAA, when are
they meeting? Because I know we had to
get the extension on the grand list,
which means they're meetings, I believe,
are this month. I don't even know if
they had any appeals.
>> The grand list has been finalized,
>> right? The end of February,
>> correct?
>> And then BAA normally would
have met already the beginning of this
month, but I don't know.
>> Yeah, he hasn't spent anything. So, I'm
sorry I missed that. But I know of that
number, like I said, 50 5250
is there. So, I I have no problem
working with Attorney O'Brien to sit
there and get paid under the bridge if I
can get it done. Um so
um
>> so is that total
16?
>> But can I ask a question too because if
we are
>> upping if we need the labor attorney to
help us with
you know updating personnel policy or
contract for the new town administrator.
um
will need some money in there, too.
>> I I have I have no problem in sitting
there saying like the the additional
amount of money to the to attorney
O'Brien is $2,000. So, I don't mind if
we just go up to $18,000.
I don't expect us to have
the same personnel issues we had last
year. This year, I would hope.
>> I'm not saying personnel. I'm saying it
just makes sense.
>> Yeah. to have a labor attorney review or
write
>> the contracts and to help us update
personnel policies and things like that.
>> That's all I'm saying rather than,
>> you know, experienced people writing
these things.
>> So, what what do we want to sit there
and have as a a I don't like the term
legal retainer because it doesn't
>> it should just be legal fees, but what
what I would ask for a $2,000 increase
to this account. Of that,
>> you know, you would be left with um you
know, $5,000, Carol, for other legal
services,
>> though. The 5,000 we could use to with
the labor attorney to help. Do you think
that that
>> would be enough?
>> I would hope so. I mean, we're going to
start with a contract draft and ask him
to um
make sure that we're protecting the
town's interest.
>> Could we maybe bump it to 20 just to
make sure we have that in there? If we
don't use it, it's going to go back in
the general fund. But at least we have
that coverage because again, rewriting
the personnel policy or revising
personnel policies and writing new
contracts.
We would just want to make sure that we
have enough hours in there for the labor
attorney to help us.
>> I I have I have no problem. I agree with
that.
So, I'll make a motion that
we increase uh in section 4139, town
attorney section 107-301
from $16,000 to $20,000.
>> It's 310.
>> 310. My bad.
>> That's okay. I'll second.
>> Okay. Uh further discussion.
All right. Ann, how do you vote?
Hi
>> uh Carol Lee.
>> Hi
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> Hi.
>> That was an I. Jeff Magcguire. I 5
nothing to increase as section 107310
to $20,000.
Okay.
Uh, town engineering,
we haven't used that this year, but we
need to keep I would imagine we should
keep that. Probate court hasn't changed.
Um,
this one is not a solid. Um,
this one needs to increase because we
don't have all of the um um
we don't have all of the money from all
of the other groups, do we?
No, we don't.
>> Yeah, I wondered why there was such a
large decrease in that and I just
haven't received anything else.
All right. So, do you know Lisa the
difference? It's like that to me is just
one of the Crag fees, right?
>> Yeah, just one. Let me go down see what
they were last year maybe.
Let's see
what is that
one.
about this computer.
So what I would ask is is what this 5158
which which group is this and how much
were there last year?
>> Well done. That's what I'm looking for.
>> I guess if I remember correctly, you got
an you got a letter from them
>> from one of them. Yes. 41. Where is it?
>> All right. We'll come back to that one.
You look at that one.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
>> it's my computer is freezing. I'm sorry.
It's
>> all right. We got to fix the IT issues.
Okay. So, um
there is one issue in this and just to
let everybody know, I know that the um
the director is asking to sit there and
and provide a step an increase to one of
the maintainers.
So I'm just telling you that that
variance that he put in there and he's
been working I believe
uh
he had put this together for the board
of finance. So this number here is a
slightly elevated related to um one of
the maintainers being being moved up.
So I I spoke to Eric. I I understand his
logic and what he's trying to do to keep
some continuity within the department
moving forward. So, it's one of the
younger employees. Um,
so anybody have any issue related to any
of the other items in this?
>> Can I just ask is it moving someone to a
two or
>> you got to get closer.
>> Can't hear you.
>> Yeah. Is that moving from a maintainer
one to a maintainer two or a maintainer
two to a three?
>> I think it's moving from a maintainer
two to three.
>> Great. I'd have to get you that
>> because I don't have it in front of me.
>> I'm just letting you know what he's
requesting from the board of finance
related to it.
>> And can I just ask maintainer 3 is the
top level there. Correct.
>> I believe so. Yes. According to the
contract.
>> All right. Thank you.
>> Yeah. death. I have those figures, but
>> go ahead.
>> Um,
for last year
I
um CCM it says is 71 1895
C was 5158
and cost was 975.
>> But we're saying we only got one of
those. But I could I've seen that $1895.
>> Well, why don't we just put the budget
number in at $8,600, which it was last
year.
>> All right. Because I know last year it
was 8028, but those were the three.
>> Yeah,
you're probably going to get the last
one before the end of the cycle. So,
even if we sit there and and so, you
know, if I have and you're Just to go
back to um the MURF admin fee, for some
reason it was put in payroll
liabilities. I don't know why. Um I
wasn't the one that entered it, so I'd
have to go back and look. But that 3830
should be in the admin fee line for this
year.
>> Well,
>> so we'll fix that, too.
>> Yeah.
>> Not sure why it's there,
>> but we have an account for it.
>> Yes. which is what I was concerned that
we didn't have an account for.
>> So,
>> okay. So,
I'm going to make a motion that we
adjust line 819810
from the initial request of 5158 to
$8,500.
>> Good, Jeff.
>> Okay. Um, any discussion on that? It's
just because that information I know is
just one of the groups. We have to
account for the other three other two.
Um
uh Ann, how do you vote?
>> Hi.
>> Um Carol,
>> hi.
>> Uh Jeff Murray,
>> Scott Person.
>> Okay. Five nothing on adjusting that to
8,500.
actually.
Uh,
just to make sure that I have my number
correct, was this adjusted to $20,000 or
$18,000?
>> It was 20. 20.
>> Yep.
Okay. Well, let's go down this way. I'm
sure I did. I missed a couple. I should
have been doing this all the time. Okay.
Town engineer. Nothing. Public works. We
did that.
Is there anything on public works that
anyone else wants to discuss
because we moved off of this one?
I mean, he's really not the the biggest
increase. The only in real increase is
the the change in
this number, you know. So, $3,500 or
9,000. Uh, maybe that's actually all
related to just payroll. Maybe it's not
related to what I thought.
Let me do some math.
>> 3% I think.
>> Um
Lisa, these are the just so we're aware.
This is the information Eric provided
you, right?
>> Well, the 3% I would have done that just
from and I believe that's yeah the union
contract or is theirs up this year? So I
um just used the 3% for everybody. So I
don't think that includes any changes
with him.
>> Okay.
>> That you were speaking of.
>> Yeah, that is the 3%. We're going to
have to sit there. I know he
>> check into that. Yeah,
>> I know he asked me. He told me that he
was thinking about doing that. So maybe
it's what he's submitting to the um
we'll have to look at that. It should be
it should come to you first and then to
the board of finance so that you can
incorporate his requests into this
number. Um,
so
we'll sit there and and get with we need
to get with Eric on that. I'll call him
in the morning. Uh, obviously our snow
removal overtime budget is going to be
exceeded. This is only through January.
So, we had a big month of February. Um,
do you have the number in that line item
right now?
>> Yeah. Yeah, it was 17,000, but I think
it's gone up from that. Hold on.
Let me go in there. Snow overtime.
Oh, snow is separate down below.
>> Yeah. 4307,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> What's the number currently that we have
in that account that we've spent
>> I'm checking the date to see. This does
not include.
Um, if you want, I can go in and add
today's payroll because that only takes
>> It's not that important. Okay.
>> You just need to know the number. Yeah.
>> Yeah. 40,000 is what's been spent. So,
it's over 17,000. That's as of the last
day of February.
>> Okay. So, and that's probably where
we'll end up for the year. 17 to
$20,000.
Um over It's not like we should budget
for another snow winter like this.
So,
um
and then can you just tell us what the
salt number is currently?
>> Yeah.
salt looks to be
21,000.
>> Um,
>> but does that not include there was that
bill where only one was paid instead of
four? So maybe there's I'm not sure if
that includes that other amount. Hold
on. Let me just see if that I can pull
that from the
>> Can you Can you just
>> Yeah. No, that doesn't include all of
it.
>> Can you Can you
>> I think one was paid. One bill was paid.
>> Correct. That that will get corrected.
So that's another 17,000. So right now
we're probably around 34 to $35,000 in
our salt budget. And I know that Eric in
discussions he's been having troubles
getting his allocation of salt,
>> which the public would sit there and see
that the roads have had more sand on
them than normal in the last four or
five years.
>> It's because we were running low on our
salt allocation.
So, I would assume that salt will get
closer to the budgeted line item and
that we'd probably be over in our sand.
Um, but it it looks like he's going to
come in at a reasonable like we're not
going to be that far. We're going to be
over our budgeted on certain line items,
but hopefully we can keep our salt down
to a reason more reasonable number. But
he's got to fill the shed up. So, it's
coming.
Um, I don't really necessarily think we
change any of these. I don't think we
react for a bad snow season. It's a It
was a bad year.
Hopefully next year.
>> What's the What's the the line for
meals?
>> Uh if they're out working and they go
and they get they get a it's an inter
union contract that they get a certain
amount of money to go out for meal. So
what they'll do is
>> they get like a certain amount per meal.
>> Um
>> or is it
>> they get contract?
>> Yeah. Would have to look at their union
contract. It could be different for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner. I'm not
sure. Some contracts are different.
>> To be really honest, Ann, the numbers
I've seen come through are coming from
either Shady Glenn or from Tom's.
So,
>> from Shady Glenn was 75 last month.
>> Yeah, it's it's on the check register
that's there. So, it's not it's not um
overly excessive. And what they do is
they just go and if they're working
around the clock, they'll go grab a
meal.
>> Yeah. Okay.
I just didn't know if they would be
getting like huge amounts of food when
they go in or if it's a if they're given
like 20 to $25 to use for the meal.
>> No, they they go and um
they get a a bill from where they're
getting it and the check gets cut and
it's dropped back off.
>> Okay. All right.
Uh ground care. Uh this will pick up in
the spring. Um,
Scott, have you heard of any increases
that we're looking at on our mowing?
>> No.
>> Okay. Anybody have any I mean stop at
anytime you guys have a problem with
>> Can I ask about beautifification?
>> Sure.
>> I'm just curious. I know I see that 2425
the actual was 7,94,
but that was when they were doing all
the plantings and everything for the
community center.
Do
>> I think this one actually has to do with
the other sign that's supposed to go up
>> I that was under EDC I believe the sign
>> could be.
>> I mean listen do you want you want to
lower beautifification? Let's I mean
>> let's not let's not lower
beautifification.
>> They certainly haven't used very much of
it.
>> No. And they, like I say, that prior
year was for all the plantings around
the new senior community center. So,
did we consult with beautifification to
see if they actually need that amount?
>> No. Ca Kathy, it's been on vacation.
She's just back. We should and let's sit
there and get that. I mean,
beautifification or we can talk about it
as we go to the board of finance. Um,
>> okay. Or we can just
>> listen
there's there's people on the board of
finance that are here that are looking
having listening to us have a
conversation about beautifification and
they can get some more information if
they choose to reduce it. That one I
just don't know. I mean, personally,
Carol, I would love to sit there and see
us do a lot more stuff, but
>> me too,
>> you know.
You know, I
>> I would love I would love to take $7,200
and clean up the trail right in across
the street from the post office, but
that would be me. I've been wanting that
for years. Um, but if you want to make
an adjustment to it, let's make an
adjustment to it.
>> I think we just need to talk with
beautifification because again,
>> I know that they
increased it substantially to do the
plantings around the senior center. So
they may not have a lot of plans this
year. I don't know.
>> Um
street lighting is, you know, based upon
our actual expenditure to to Eversource.
Um
custodian line 419B.
I don't know if Seth B is supposed to be
there, but
um
I'll just tell you
they do a phenomenal job.
>> They're well worth every penny.
>> We should give them more money. They
don't I know we don't have a lot, but
they
those two are are so good. Um,
I have no problem increasing the
percentage change for that for what they
do to keep that town office. I mean,
that town office building looks so good.
>> Beautiful. It's never looked as good as
that.
>> Yeah,
>> they do the painting inside and out. He
cleans the bricks in the front of that
building. I agree with you. I think they
should get more
I've seen the work that they do. They
put up those sound panels for us.
>> They clean the windows. The glass is
always clean. The bathrooms are
spotless.
Well, listen. I I have no no problem
giving them a 5% increase
because
they just go above and beyond.
>> They do. All every time they go in
there, they go go above and beyond.
>> So, I I'll sit there and I'll just I
I'll make a recommendation to line
147-1000
to increase that number to $25,000.
Okay.
>> Well, I'll second that. Jeff,
>> is that pay considered to be an hourly
wage or how do you figure the pay the u
the amount that they get paid?
>> Um, that could be calculated backwards
and for their number of hours.
>> I don't I don't know if he's a salaried
oriented.
>> I think when I saw payroll today, I
think it's it's a salary. I I'm
positive. Um, and if you do it up to
25,000, it's an 8.7 increase, just so
you know.
>> That's fine.
>> But I think that's fair. They clean the
community center. They clean the
library, too, right?
>> Yes.
>> They do work at the library.
>> They They do a really great job. And I I
think 25,000. They're they're worth more
than that. But
>> personally, I would fund the
$1310.
They're so worth it. I mean, I walk into
that building, every time I see them,
I'm like, he's on his hands and knees
scrubbing the stuff off the floor. I I
can't tell you what a good job the two
of them do.
>> Right. They're well worth it. So,
>> um transfer. We seconded it though, but
we didn't take the vote.
>> Oh, sorry. Um,
>> that's okay.
>> Let's vote on it. Uh, car an
>> Yes. I
>> Okay, Carol.
>> I
>> uh Jeff Murray.
>> I think he said yes. Did you say yes?
>> Yes. I
>> Okay, Scott.
>> I All right, Jeff. I That's uh five
nothing.
Okay.
Uh transfer station the wages increased
3%
and we have a decrease in forecasted
electricity.
Um
do we have anything that looks like it's
going to run over?
Did we actually spend the money on the
brush pile removal or did it get burned
this year, Scott? What happened?
>> Yeah, they got rid of it. Yeah,
>> they got rid of it.
>> You have to put it in there cuz we every
year
>> Okay. Did uh Did it get chipped? Did it
get burned? What happened to it?
>> No, they came and chipped it.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Nothing looks out of the ordinary
for our expenses to sit there and get
in. Why are the electricity costs going
down up there?
>> Uh I can't.
>> It's just a simple forecast that I did.
So if you think they're going to use
more between January and June, you can
change it. But that is a forecast of
what they've used and then tied out to
the end of the year.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Recycling. Um,
there's no hazardous waste pickup. Are
we not collecting any of the oils or
anything like that?
>> They do.
>> They do. And that's down here.
What would hazardous waste pickup be?
>> Paint.
>> Electronics.
>> Electronics. Um, fluorescent light
bulbs, things like that.
>> Okay. We should sit there and see, but I
mean there's no change to that budget.
The resident state trooper, we did get
an analysis from the state and this was
going to be the expected cost for next
year. So they actually gave us their
numbers in advance. I think enough towns
complained that they weren't getting
them. So
>> that's good. Um
the fire department is looking for uh so
on this one there's nothing we can
really do other than eliminate the
entire state trooper line which I don't
think any of us have any appetite to
undertake.
So
they voted it down
>> fire commission is increasing by 2500.
Uh Wall-E is to present his budget or
was did Wally present his budget? He
did. I missed that meeting. Yep. Yep.
Sorry.
Um the fire marshal, we saw him a couple
weeks ago. He's uh nothing got increased
there. Um there are some of these line
items that we might want to ask
ourselves. Do we need $1,000 in
equipment for the fire marshall? Um
>> yeah, these are some of the items that
we should sit there and look at with the
board of finance. So, I'll actually sit
there and ask the fire marshal what his
needs are in that area. Um, civil
preparedness, no change to that one.
Anybody?
>> Looks like it's an over amount.
>> Excuse me.
>> Actual amount spent 2425 is $429.
>> That was that was the prior that was the
prior.
>> I see.
>> Yeah. This year we have spent that.
Okay.
>> So, we spent we spent that, but we
budgeted that. So, we're under budget by
three $2,500 or
>> you know that kind of bullet
>> the vehicle. Yeah.
>> Aren't we supposed to pay this to to the
shared vehicle which used to be our
ambulance?
>> He
borrow.
>> Well, just Yeah, just
um but maybe they haven't had to do
anything to maintain the vehicle and
they're not charging us. So, okay.
Um,
this one is definitely not right. This
one,
do you have the document that they gave
us, Lisa, related to the increase?
>> Um, do I have that with me? It's It is.
You are right. It's 19,000. Um, let me
just see if I have the documents.
Let's see. Should be
19,60209
>> 602
>> 09. Yeah. 602.
Um I would just unless you guys want to
make it exactly the right number.
Do you if you want me to I will. 16,600
>> 62. Oh, 602.
>> We put $148 extra, but doesn't matter.
>> Uh, I'll make a motion that we increase
line item 151105,
uh, animal controlled shared services to
$19,610.
>> 602.
>> I know, but I'm making it.
>> All right. Second.
>> All right. Uh so Carol Lee seconded it.
Further discussion and creme, how do you
vote?
Is that a yes?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Yes. Um Carol Lee,
>> yes.
>> Uh Jeff Murray,
>> Scott Person,
>> yes.
>> Jeff Magcguire, yes. that passes 5
nothing to increase that line item based
upon the shared services agreement we
received.
>> Okay. Um
senior citizens under the public welfare
section uh the resident services
coordinator stipen remains at 611.
>> I think we usually give that a raise
though. We have in the past. We've
always given that the same raise.
>> How about keep it? How about we keep it
the same?
>> You don't want to give that one a 3%
too?
>> No, I think there's other things that we
need to do with that position to make
it, you know, I don't think we need to
give an increase in the resident service
coordinator stipen.
I think we need to sit there and and u
get a contract reworked. So I I don't
think this number is that necessarily
that important
unless you want to which I understand
why.
I mean, I'm just saying it would only be
fair to do the same 3% that we've tra
traditionally done
because
give me one second.
Uh, I'll make a motion that we increase
the senior citizens resident service
coordinator account 145-100
to uh $6,295.
>> Second.
>> Seconded by Carol Lee. Um,
further discussion hearing none. Ann,
how do you vote?
>> Yes.
Um, Carol Lee,
>> yes.
>> Uh, Jeff Murray,
>> hi.
>> Scott Person,
>> And Jeff Magcguire, I So carries five
nothing. So 6295
>> change. Yeah. Okay. 3
>> and and it's pennies. It's actually
6294.33
but
I round it training. Uh we haven't spent
it. We need to sit there and so now um
Carol
this this budget is also controlled by
the senior center. Correct. So all of
these
are controlled by the senior center
director. Correct.
>> Yes, that is correct.
>> Okay.
>> Um
question. Why is the senior lunch line
so large when they have not used that
kind of an amount in the past?
>> Well, I know our own budget. So,
>> we increased it a lot.
>> Yeah, but why? They have they're not
using it. Not that much
>> previously. if they've moved if they've
used it more.
>> It looks like so far they used 4500,
>> but that's only through the end of
January. And
>> right, they've you moved up now. It's up
to
>> seven months.
>> It's still up to It's up to 5,467
so far this year.
>> I still think they could do maybe 10,000
instead of 1250.
>> Previously, we have increased it
I don't think that those other n numbers
are anywhere near accurate.
>> Which number?
>> The actuals
>> they actually are because we used to
just get $1,000. Then it bumped up to
5,024.
And that is why the board of finance and
the board of selectmen established the
senior lunch liability account because
we would have to fund raise in order to
fund the lunches. So we would have tag
sales. Um we'd have
sales with the vendor sales where they
rented spaces and we did basket raffles.
We used to have to fund raise for the
money. So, uh, finally in 2526,
Eric bumped it up to the 25 12,500.
>> And to be be really honest, I think you
should use it on the seniors. So, so if
our
>> if our coordinator, our director isn't
using it, we need to make sure that they
use it and make sure that
maybe housebound seniors get their
lunch.
So,
>> that's a good idea.
>> I don't think we cut that. I think we
make better use of those funds.
>> Don't ever cut it. you know,
>> because even even if you did 122,000,
that's $1,000 a month. And so that would
be $250
each week towards the lunches. And they
they do that every Wednesday. Every
other Wednesday they do the regular
lunch and every other they have like a
bingo or something special for the
seniors where they just get the cold
sandwiches and maybe a salad, fruit
salad.
>> Yeah.
>> So they still they still pay something
for that, don't they? They're not
>> right. So what they do is they pay $5
towards the lunches and then that money
gets deposited into the senior lunch
liability account.
So and I think that
>> Lisa, do we have balances of that? I the
liability account I thought it
>> was seven or 8,000 right now.
>> No, I haven't been able to get into
those. I No, I haven't had time to get
into that.
>> Okay.
>> The L accounts as they're called.
>> Yes. The L accounts.
>> No.
I mean, I like seeing things available
to the seniors, but I just think that
the um that and the programs line 16,000
this time.
What is all of that for then?
I I know that the program lines, they're
introducing
a lot of extra programs and they do
charge for those programs and then the
money does go into the liability
account,
not the general fund. So,
you might be able to look at that.
Yeah,
>> you know, once we can get the balance
from Lisa,
>> that's something that just seems like
it's a big jump.
>> There was a a
>> and there's
>> I don't know if Tessa is still on, but
she did do a a huge saying what all the
programs were for the community center
and I think the senior ones were in
there also, but
>> I think a lot of the programs she wants
to add were in there.
>> Yeah, I know. I saw that. Yeah.
>> So, Tess, are you still on?
>> Yes, I am.
>> Would you address that 16,000?
>> Yeah, I did send out in the packet um
for the budget. I broke down each month
and I sort of estimated about what new
programs we could have. Um there there
is a uh an adjustment with the art. uh
art is actually uh doing very well. Um
the community art, not so much. The kids
art and the senior arts is actually
increasing. Um we were thinking about
having an open art night. Um that
wouldn't cost anything, but the
community art we can remove. um it can
go down a little bit, but definitely
once the stove gets installed and the
hood gets installed, um then I was
anticipating more activities with the
stove. So, um uh yeah, more programs and
considering the stove would be an
increase in that. Um again, it's all in
the packet information that I sent over
with my budget.
I haven't seen
I saw today's report for February.
>> Yeah, that was done back in uh December.
I believe
>> it did. Yeah, it went out to the board
of finance.
>> It did come to us.
>> It I believe it uh I I can send it
again. I'm more than happy to do that
tomorrow morning.
>> You didn't remember seeing it? Maybe it
did.
If
>> you could send it to us tomorrow, Tess,
that would be great. and then we'll sit
there and highlight these for the board
of finance to sit there and dig a little
bit deeper with you.
>> Yep, sure thing.
>> Okay,
so
this is our current budget. So there's
only a 3% increase in the drivers and
the dispatch salaries.
So drivers test, right? So there's
really only the 3% increase on uh the
compensation.
Eastern Health uh Eastern uh Highlands
Health District gave us a
slight increase.
Is that what they gave us or is that
just an increase based upon
>> No, they gave us that.
>> They gave us that. Okay. mental
health, social services, AHM. So, AHM
provided us an analysis based upon
student population. Um,
I mean, AHM is a good organization. We
probably should use them for more of
their services,
but we should sit there and see what's
up. Um,
library
Uh, can you tell me what that means over
here, Lisa?
>> Yeah, that goes back into again the
friends. Um, so
they want their lot their budget to be
118096.
So they want to take the 1218.97 and
minus the funds from the friends that
they're counting on and make their
budget just 118096. I didn't know what
the board of finance wants to do about
that.
>> It goes back to the, you know, like what
Carol was talking about how listing
money's revenues outside of what the
budget is.
>> Well, if the library wants it to be
118096,
let's make it 118096.
>> So do you want to take it out of
operating then? because it didn't
clarify that in in the request.
>> Yeah. So,
>> um
>> one second. I find out what the number
is, right?
>> Yep.
>> Can you tell me what is supported by the
friends at 3,800? One of these salaries
the child.
>> No, that's what I'm saying. They didn't
direct that. They just want that taken
off the top.
Is it a library?
>> So, we're going to take it out of
operating instead of salaries.
>> Sounds good.
>> But if we're So, you're taking it out of
operating, but that wouldn't give us a
true picture because over there it says
somebody's getting a $2 an hour raise.
So, we don't do we know how much per
hour that person is making. And if it's
$2
an hour, um,
depending on what the hourly rate is,
well, Carol, if we made it exactly
and they were working to keep themselves
in that budget, it would either be an
overage in payroll and an underage in
operations or vice versa,
>> right? But
>> next year's budget, if it's not
supported by the friends and this person
is making the extra $2 per hour, then
our budget would have to support that,
right?
>> Because that person's already been
increased that hourly rate. So I I think
it needs to be spelled out a little bit
more clearly.
>> Okay. exactly what that 3800 is
supporting. Is it supporting
obviously not the director's uh
and the director I'm assuming is the
librarian
>> correct
>> and then the child programming
$2 out. So what is it supporting? What
are they funding?
>> I wasn't giving any direction. I mean,
maybe Kathy has that direction, but
>> I just think we should get clarification
on that.
>> I understand what you're asking for. I
mean, the difference they're asking for
is $3,800
lower. So, um, I have no problem leaving
it. I mean, I wouldn't leave it that
number, honestly, and pass it to the
board of finance. I would I would reduce
the library operations by that number.
And, um, so I'm going to make a motion.
Carol, just for sake of getting to their
number and then what we should do is is
reach out to the library to sit there
and say prepare to provide the board of
finance with appropriate information on
what they're doing.
I mean, because why would we why would
we put a budget of 12187
if they're only asking for 11806?
>> No, I agree with that. I'm just saying
supporting something. Well, anyway, you
know what I'm asking?
>> You're trying to sit there and say for
next year, you don't want to sit there
and see them come up with another $3,800
because they're already paying this
person $2 an hour extra.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah. So, you're looking not at this
year's budget, but the following year's
budget,
>> which you should do, which all of our
organizations should do. It's the same
thing that happens in in in different,
you know, branches of our town
government when they get a grant and
they they're paying an employee a lot of
money and then they lose the grant and
then they ask the town to fund the extra
expenses.
So,
>> correct, because that's deceiving and
you know, somebody's not going to work
for less next year. So,
>> Correct. Okay. So, I'm going to make um
a motion to
lower the um library operations line
account 001-800
to 29273.
>> Second that, Jeff.
>> Okay. And so, let me put that in just so
we make sure that the number is right.
One second.
29 273
118096. Yep. So Scott Pone seconded. Any
further discussion? All right. Uh and
how do you vote?
Is that an I? Yes. Maybe.
Did I lose Ann? Because I can't see her
talking.
>> I can't see her.
>> She abstained.
>> She abstained. Okay, that's fine.
Um,
>> did she really abstain or we just can't
hear her?
>> I'm sorry. I
I stepped away for a minute. What was
the question?
Uh we're uh voting to lower um sorry
>> library to lower the library operations
line 001-800
>> 220.
>> I'll say yes.
>> Okay. Caroli,
>> I'll say I as long as the board of
finance is going to review that.
>> Okay.
>> Um Jeff Murray
>> I.
>> Scott Person
I. Jeff McGuire. I and Scott, I'm
assuming it's five nothing. Okay.
Um,
recreation commission registration for
what is what is WICS?
Is that a software?
>> So, yes. Well, we what we did was we
agreed with the community center that we
would pay half of the annual maintenance
each year for that software because
we're going to use it for the basketball
registration.
And
>> okay,
>> since we're on the subject of
registrations for things, I know this is
going to be a sore spot for somebody,
but
are we going to start uh registering for
for all these other sports in the b in
the in the gym at Andover Elementary,
i.e. pickle ball.
So are you asking for a form a liability
form or we fill
>> No, just you know it's if you know like
a season pass for residents and then pay
one amount and then out of state
residents pay another amount. I mean out
of town residents I'm sorry.
>> Right.
I mean, we b everybody else everybody
else pays to use that for for
activities. And I mean, we charge for
activities in the community center.
>> And well,
>> I'm sorry. They're they're using
electricity or using heat. Um,
>> and it's it's it's getting up to like
two or three days a week now. So,
>> is it is it that often?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Actually, I'm glad. Uh, but I would sit
there I would sit there and just ask the
question like when basketball charges a
fee, what basketball is charging the fee
for is to cover uniforms and to sit
there and uh
cover referee costs. So there's there's
they're not paying to the community.
>> But Jeff, every Yeah. But every other
every other municipality and entity is
charging and we are one of the only
towns that is not.
Well, then that's a different issue if
we sit there and want to do that. But I
know that we've always had kind of a an
unwritten rule that the board of of
finance, the board of selectment wasn't
going to charge for,
you know, community members doing things
like that. So,
>> yeah, but how many people do we have
from the community? And how many people
we got coming from out of town?
Now we we uh put we sign up all the
community members first which usually
takes up the whole the whole space and
then if any community members get out
then out of town people can come but
lately it's been all community members
that have been playing. I mean, I was
just looking at other I was looking at
other towns and they just do a season
pass and it's they charge residents one
fee and out of and out oftowners another
fee.
>> Do you know roughly how many people show
up, Scott? I I know I think Dave and
Lisa are the ones kind of overseeing
everything, but do you know how many
people show up? I think you guys have a
pretty good turnout, don't you?
But like I said, we we set up the
schedule with handover people first.
>> No, but how many Scott? Like when you're
per night
>> a full a full
>> you know everybody on all the on all the
courts. How many people is it?
>> Did I lose you?
I'm looking up my data.
>> Well, how many courts do you set up?
Three.
>> Last uh
there was 20 people
>> and that's all in town residents.
It's good.
So then the outdoor courts when they're
ready should be used which is a whole
other thing which we do have to get
>> hopefully
>> how to how to how to register how to um
assign usage on those but I will go to
one thing Scott that I I do think that
you know I don't think it would be
totally negative to ask for a small fee
to offset the cost of the scheduling and
maintenance and those kind of things. I
I don't think it it's a horrible thing
to ask. I just think we have to have
more time to think about how to do it
properly.
>> Well, I just think like a season pass so
we can give them a and I saw some towns
give like uh yellow armband like those
lipstrong bracelets. You just put it on
when you go to play so you know that you
already paid for that year and you just
change the color every year when you
renew.
>> Can I ask where would the
>> where would you suggest that they go?
You got to get closer.
>> They go to the school like the student
activity fund.
>> Oh, it would just get paid at the
community center and they would get the
they would get a wristband for that
season and it would be like a yellow. We
just change the color every year. They
get like an orange one the next color, a
blue one the color next year after. And
that way you could just walk through the
you could walk through the gym and you
could see if who's make sure everybody's
got their passes just by looking at
their arms. You have to wear the armband
when you play. So then that money would
go into the general fund. Is that what
you're saying?
>> Well, wherever, this was another
question I had. I don't see anything,
you know, all the all the income coming
from all these programs that we're going
to be doing. We should probably
establish a line item for these for this
revenue that we're going to be
receiving.
>> The revenue does go into the senior. It
used to be the senior lunch program, but
it's been explained to me now that it's
senior lunch, you know. So they put the
revenue from senior lunch in one set.
>> I'm not talking I'm not talking senior
lunch
>> programs.
>> I'm just talking yoga like all these
other things that we're charging.
>> Jeff, this is something that uh Lisa and
I have looked at. um we need to do a
much better job of identifying where
revenues are being generated and listing
them properly within the system
>> because we talk about these L accounts
and different things and it's really
hard to see those in um in our normal
financial statements. So it is something
that uh we do need to do better job of
of listing revenues and I think there
should be um
you know a fee a fee section and then
you talk about the different fees that
are collected let's say under recreation
so we did this under the rec w recck
department these are the fees that we've
received so you receive basketball and
basketball offsets itself and that's
something that we need to do so that we
account for these things in an
appropriate ate manner. So, I have no
problem with what you're asking about
putting.
>> Yeah. I mean, I'm not asking for extra
I'm not saying it'd be an extravagant
amount of money, but it's just something
to to align us with other towns. And
like most of the people that are
residents here, they don't have to
travel far to play. So, it's not like
asking for a big big commitment here
financially. So,
>> well, I do think that it's something
that we definitely should do um and
think about, but
>> So, are we going to do the same thing? I
mean, I know this is early, but down at
the fields, too, to regulate the use and
is the senior center
going to handle all that, signing out
those fields?
Tess has her hand up. So maybe
she may not want to do do that.
>> We need to listen, this is very early as
to what we want to think about doing,
but it's something that I I know that we
need to sit there and get a better
handle on because even I believe there
was a request from Ram Soccer to use the
field for for little kids.
>> Yes. And we need to address we need to
address that as to how
>> the fields and everything get
utilized. So the field like the fields
and the pickle ball courts, the outdoor
pickle ball courts will have to have
some kind of um signup procedure. Well,
that's where I get to with the armbands.
I think that would include indoor and
outdoor. So you would have access to the
outdoor ones as well, you know, and you
would get I get I would I would assume
though that court would be locked and
you would have to get accommodation to
get in there.
>> I and and this is just something and we
don't have to go We shouldn't really do
this tonight, but Scott, since you do go
to a lot of these other towns, you're
going to have to tell us how they do it
and how it's coordinated. I'm assuming
that you're paying to join the league
and they're running the league.
Yeah, I don't know. Do you want to get
into this tonight?
>> No, let's not do it now. Jeeoff, I I I
understand what you're saying and we
should talk about it and get to it.
>> But, um, let's do that and maybe our
next meeting when we get this budget to
>> Understood.
>> Thing I want to tell you is there's not
a lock on any place to play pickle ball
any anywhere I've ever been to.
>> And I've been to 25
>> 25 of them.
>> But that's outside, right? because I
know and I just want to get back on like
if we're going to start charging fees
like the basketball like you said Jeff
we use it to run
>> all the all the outside ones are there's
no fees to anyone and they're open
>> right but if but the inside ones and if
we're going to do that like Ram High
School and middle school they have set
fees and it's the school that sets up
the schedule for use of the gym and the
school that sets up the fees. So, if
it's an inside,
>> you have to you have to, you know, you
have to go this way, that's a different
thing because the RAM number is because
they assign a a janitor to it. It's it's
a whole Caroline, when I was up there
trying to do basketball and do things
with them, it had it has a lot to do
with their their their assignment of the
janitor to the gym.
So, and and that's all well and good.
Our uh we we have to be very cautious as
to what we try to say we're going to do
related to the gymnasium and fees
because you know, Carol, the basketball
doesn't pay any fees and and honestly it
shouldn't because we'd outcharged the
the amount of money to sit there and
have the league. So,
um, that this issue has to be dealt with
with thought and understanding of who
we're trying to help get to where. And
to be really honest, if you have 20
residents that are getting together and
playing pickle ball, I think that's
awesome because I don't think there's a
lot of other than, you know, the church
and the library, there's not a lot of
places where older Andover residents get
together and uh
do something active.
So,
I just tell you, we got to think about
it. And this is not the time. It's
almost 11 o'clock and we need to
>> I just wanted to mention it. That's all.
>> Yep. No problem. I totally get it.
All right. Um,
so the rec commission is asking for
$1,400 additional for programs for
the software to register.
>> No, there's an additional concert in
there, too. A $500.
>> Yes,
>> that's fine. So, $900 for the software
and $500 for the concert. Um,
>> I just got to ask, why are we giving any
more money to the community garden?
>> I'm I don't do the community garden.
That's Jeff.
Um,
>> my question on the community garden,
just like I would sit there and tell
you, and this this would go right to
you, Jeff, like from a standpoint of
charging, you know, that we get 20
residents to come and play pickle ball
on a Sunday. How many people use a
community garden?
>> There's seven gardens, isn't there?
>> I think there's 10, actually.
>> Okay.
>> Because there's two beds in each of
those squares. I think it's beautiful
and it seems like they do a nice job,
but I would really like to sit there and
see there be a significant amount of
people to uh participate in the
community garden to justify getting
$3,800 of town tax money.
I
>> think there was six people, Carol, at
one point that were involved with it.
There could have and some of them had a
couple,
>> right? You're right. But there's there's
the 10. The beds are cut in half, so
there are 10.
>> So, I would sit there and just say that
that I don't mind sitting there. It's
only $3,700. I don't mind sitting there
committing to it this year, but I do
think that Jeff and the community garden
group needs to sit there and give us a
bigger understanding of the benefit that
it's given to a larger number of
residents within the town. I
>> think a whole lot of the food that comes
out of there goes to the church.
then quantify it and make us happy about
it.
>> Yeah,
>> I know they put up the fence a year or
two ago and that I'm sure was part of
the expense, but I don't know what this
expense is, what all this money is going
towards.
>> I I I know Jeff's worked hard on it and
it looks great. I just don't know
>> if it's benefiting enough residents.
Whereas I sit there and I look at
something like pickle ball and then you
can get 20 20 and and average age Scott
50 on your pickle ball.
>> Yeah, I would say so. Yeah,
>> that is awesome because you don't really
have a lot of opportunities like that. I
mean once our kids age out of school and
athletics and you know you don't really
have a lot of opportunity. I mean, I
know Carol at one point in time,
you know, adult basketball used to be a
bigger thing, but uh I think that's
awesome. I think we should try to
promote and those types of things a lot.
>> I think I'm probably close to the one of
the oldest.
>> Yes. But with that said, we charge we
have all kinds of programs at the
community center that we charge fees
for. So,
>> Yep. And you you're talking about kids
basketball versus adults
>> playing.
>> No, I'm talking about the fees charged
for the kids. What they go to?
>> Yep.
>> Right.
>> Seniors are going to be using the
community garden this year, too.
>> The seniors are good.
>> Mhm.
>> All right. That's just something we
should look at. The Memorial Day parade.
Um, do we need to sit there and make any
adjustments on that?
Okay. Uh, on the selectman line, is
there any adjustments that need to be
made on the selectman line?
>> Um, okay, I get that one.
>> Committee.
I just curious, what's the Veterans
Committee on that line there?
>> Um, isn't that what um Susan sits there
and deals with?
>> Okay. It it used to be the Veterans Day
when we had the Veterans Day
celebration.
Uh but then the recreation commission
took that over and left that line for
Susan to use for her veterans meetings
and that.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay. the board of
>> I think that that I think that veterans
is misspelled.
>> Yeah, I saw that too. This is brought
out of Quickbook, so it was like that
before I could hear, but I already noted
right next to it.
>> Yeah, we don't like misspellings.
>> All right. Um,
is there anything that anyone sees on
any of these? The, you know,
the board of finance has a clerk fee
increase 3%. That's nothing
conservation committee board of
assessment appeals. Let's talk about the
board of assessment appeals. This is
actually something that we probably
don't um
this we need to sit there and talk to
the assessor's office because they have
this lookup that they're asking for and
it's just not being made available to
them.
So, does anyone know about that or
hasn't had any
uh
so our
card taxes are supposed to be based off
a very fine night list as to what's up
and um I know the assessor's office has
access to this lookup and I'm not sure
that they're providing the lookup to the
board of assessment appeals. So, we need
to sit there. I I need to sit there and
ask John that question if it could be
made available to them. Um, and that
committee is just looking at sitting
there doing that and doing additional
training. Now, there was going to be a
change to the law that got vetoed. So,
I guess our our assessor was pushing for
a state board of assessment appeals and
uh it actually got pretty far within the
legislature and then got vetoed. So,
Um,
>> I just think it's only $380
and just in case the BAA would have
access to look that information up.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
>> well, I have no idea. I have no problem
leaving it. I guess we need to determine
what type of line there is. Uh, my only
problem is I think we're paying for it
twice.
So,
we'll we'll sit there and look at it and
I'll sit there and deal with uh the
assessor and ask him if it can be made
available and let's hear what he has to
say to us.
>> Okay.
>> All right. So,
economic development is looking for a
$1,000 extra or no coming down. So,
that's the sign coming down. Carol,
>> yes, the sign.
>> Okay, good.
Planning and zoning, uh, 3% $60 increase
on salaries,
12 meetings per year for Inland Wetland.
So, this is the board clerk increase.
Okay.
All right. Let's get to this section
here. This is the biggest section of the
town budget for us. Um,
revaluation is a consistent amount that
we've put money away. We probably have
uh the majority of the revaluation paid
for by the time the revaluation comes
around to hit us.
Contingency, we've always left it
$50,000.
Um,
>> can we get balances on these though? I
mean, we seem to fund these 50,000 every
year. The multiuse building fund has
over 400,000 in it
>> and we're going to put another 50 in.
So, we've that multi-use building fund
started before we got the
>> what the COVID money to build our senior
center, but we just keep adding to that.
>> Yeah, no problem. Lisa, in the on the
right side in the memo when you're doing
this and even doing this for um
for the board of finance, if we can put
in the memo the balance, the current
balance
>> because that that revaluation one that
is a separate account,
>> okay,
>> that just got reconciled.
>> I spent several hours on this this
morning and I pretty much went in
circles because of the way QuickBooks is
set up. So, I'm trying, but um
>> we'll figure we'll figure that out. But
some of these are actually uh like open
space fund. There's an open space bank
account.
>> There is
>> Why don't you keep a balance along in in
that line?
>> We will she what she's saying is she's
just got to get to it.
>> I have to get the history. I I've got
this for last year and for this year,
but there is no I cannot find the
history of what's in that. We have the
bank account for it seems like a year at
a time. you know, uh, I can I can tell
you in my head the QuickBooks 21
accounts are going to have these things
and these should tie into the audit.
>> Like I can I mean I can tell you like
the
>> um
>> I was in there today. I was in 21 and 23
and I I can't get it to I the cash Yes,
they're balanced. The cash accounts are
balanced. I'm trying to find a history
and I cannot find a history. So, that's
what I'm working on.
>> Okay. Um I mean, we we definitely need
the um
the road and fruit. I mean, I can sit
there and tell you that the public works
money, the 125 is basically the payment
for
the truck that is still out there. And I
think this is the last year on that
truck. So, we're going to have to sit
there and talk about what we do in the
future for the next truck, if it needs
to be replaced or how far we can go
outside of it. And the fire engine
tanker, that one's low to me. I got to
look at that one because I thought the
fire engine tanker payment was somewhere
in the range of $250,000.
Um,
so I I mean I Carol and and everybody I
sit there and go the revaluation one is
just like a a consistent amount of money
that you know we have put more in
previously. So once we have the balance
we should sit there and get what our
previous revaluation cost was to get the
outside company to come in and do the
that work. contingency was at $50,000.
Um,
we haven't, you know, the
I don't even think we spent the $2,000.
>> I mean, we really don't use a lot out of
contingency and we don't know even what
the balance is.
>> 2425.
>> There is there is no there is no balance
in contingency. Contingency is a
oneanddone transaction. The revaluation
is a capital fund that carries over the
multi-use building.
Um, that one's a question.
>> Have the money in a contingency fund.
Then why put that?
>> There is there is no contingency fund
that carries over.
>> There isn't.
>> No.
Contingency is one once a year we keep
it there and then whatever's left Carol
ends up in the general going back to the
general fund. Okay.
Okay. And but the multi-use building
fund does not.
>> No, there are a bunch of these like the
open space funds, the building
maintenance fund,
>> uh the bridge and culvert fund, the tree
removal tree removal fund.
Uh I have to look at the audit on that
one.
>> I think we put tree removal there, but
we usually go through it. Road
improvement. Um
certain of these Carol are your right.
They're capital related but they're not
>> over they're not going into funds that
are carried over from year to year.
>> So they're not a capital reserve. It's
just capital related.
>> Capital related. Exactly.
>> Okay.
>> So we on things like the multiuse
building fund and the bridge and culvert
fund because we got so much money in
those already.
Yeah. And you're going to spend it all
at bridg and culvert fund. We're not
even going to have enough money there.
>> But you've got
um over $700,000 in that fund. So why
put another $175 in now when we got the
bridges paid for?
And you just need to
And you're incorrect. The bridges the
bridges across the Hop River have been
paid for with grants. the right the
covert at Brazilla Road which that money
is sent there for has been allocated
there for is going to cost us a million
dollars a
>> million dollars
>> Brazil road
>> and that's one of nine culverts we're
not just one
>> near enough in that fund but that's okay
>> so the bridge and culvert fund for
bridges
>> for those kind of repairs the lake
>> those are not we don't receive any state
federal grant money.
>> Yeah, we're still going to get we're
going to get 50% I think from them.
>> We'll get 50% back. But Bunker Hill, was
that funded at 100%.
>> Fully both of them fully funded.
>> Okay. So, so let me ask you, we had
several hundred,000 in the Bunker Hill.
Did that money when the money because I
don't see that here like the Bunker
Hill. So, when the money goes out of
that account, are we putting the
reimbursement into the general fund? How
are we how are we showing that? Why
wouldn't we just keep putting it back
into a bridge fund? Why would we have to
name it Bunker Hill? Why couldn't we
just call it bridge fund and any bridge
we're replacing, the money is in there?
Um
well when the
the expenses come in from the
contractor. So in that case uh NJ what
was it Scott? NJR. Um
>> yes.
>> Okay.
>> NJR and SLR.
>> Yeah. and they would come and they would
sit there and say, "Hey, you need to pay
us for, you know, $158,000
for this portion of the bridge
construction." We would then pay that
out of our general fund and we have a
grant, we should have a grant line for
it and then when the money came in, we
would, you know, collect the money into
that and put it back into the general
fund. So, it's just a wash of the of the
transactions. In the case of the
culvert,
we're going to have to pay half the
money. So, the state says they're going
to pay half the money and we're going to
have to pay half the money. And the
current cost, you know, and we should
have a meeting with that engineering
firm again. Um, last time that Eric
reported to us it was going to be $1.9
million and we were going to be on the
hook for 50% of it.
But last year, the reason I'm
questioning is last year we had a
specific line that said Bunker Hill
Bridge,
>> we had a specific line for Bunker Hill
Bridge because there was concern about
um we had to front the money,
>> right? We had to pay first and then the
federal government or the state
reimbursed us, but the money did not go
back on that Bunker Hill bridge line.
>> So, you're asking about last year, the
transaction and how it occurred.
>> Well, didn't we just finish the bridge
the end of last year? So, we're still in
that same current fiscal year.
>> And I'm questioning why we don't have
that on here.
So, even though it was finished last
year in what, November, December, I
don't know, Scott, I still have the
picture you sent me, so I can tell you
exactly when it was finished. And
>> well, we're going to have to look
>> November. How
>> it was November. So, it's in this fiscal
year that we're currently in, but yet we
don't see a Bunker Hill Bridge line
there anymore.
If that Bunker Hill Bridge was in there
for last year,
>> then I I understand what you're asking.
You're asking why did we get taxed for
it if we got reimbured for it?
>> Correct. So, and why would we I
understand that we have to tax our
residents to put the initial money that
we need to pay the contractors for that.
However, if we just labeled it bridge
now, instead of creating a long hill
road bridge fund, which I don't know if
we're doing that, or if are you just
thinking there's enough in bridge and
culvert, or we're just going to take the
money for longill bridge out of the
general fund and not have it identified
on the budget? That's my question.
Well, I have to look at what happened
last year because if that happened last
year, um,
I don't I think there,
you know, we didn't do that correctly to
be really honest. I have I have to look
at it, Carol, because if what you're
trying to say is that we tax the
residents on Long Hill Bridge or
>> Bunker Hill Bridge.
>> Bunker Hill.
>> Yeah.
>> And
>> I got to find out where that went. The
treasurer should have taken care of it.
Okay. Because like I say, that line is
missing. And I remember asking you about
it last year.
>> Well, before the bridge was finished
>> and
was,
>> like I say, it's the current fiscal year
that we're in. So, I'm just surprised
that I'm not seeing it on this.
>> Well, you should see it on last year's
line.
>> Is that right?
>> Oh, it's now just called Bridgette
Culver. Was
>> No, because Bridgen Culver was always
there, Ann. It was
>> was not bridge and culvert and it was
>> it was a different
>> yes it was definitely a different line.
>> Okay.
>> And judging by the numbers here
there is a gap 915. So 916 is missing
918 and 919 are missing because we have
and then they start at 899
and then there's gaps in the numbers. So
it it's missing. I thought it was
somewhere around the bridge and culvert
fund. So it could have been 913.
>> It was it was 913
and I just looked back I just looked
back into 2425 and I don't see anything
in that year either. So I this is why
I'm saying I was in there today and I'm
looking for this stuff. I'm trying to
make sense out of this.
>> So it's not on this year's budget
because there was not there's nothing in
here. But I don't I don't know. It's got
to be somewhere, but doesn't look like
it's in the budget to actual. Maybe it's
in classes or somewhere else, but I'm
trying to pull it. I mean, Jeff knows.
I'm trying to make sense out of it. So,
>> I mean, I can look back at a couple of
the other um spreadsheets that I have
because it did show that our residents
were taxed two years in a row on that
money
to have enough in there to fund what we
would be building.
>> What we have to do is is find out what
they were attempting to accomplish, you
know, whether it's in the bridge and
culvert fund. Um,
>> no, it's not. No, no, no. If it's in
their balance right now, Carol, because
maybe it just got added, we have to
understand what the treasurer and the
finance department did with that money.
The only way to do it is to sit there
and allow the current treasur to sit
there and go through that. Like, I'm
just having a problem if that line isn't
showing here for the prior year numbers.
But again, that doesn't surprise me
because there was no money spent out of
it.
It's got to go somewhere.
Um,
>> okay.
>> So, is there anything that anyone wants
to do with any of these capital funds
that's above and beyond what's listed
here currently?
>> The only question that I have is Lisa,
and I know you have a lot on your plate,
but those gap in the numbers, you've
already cleared up that 913 was Bunker
Hill Bridge.
>> Yep. Did you figure out for us what 916,
918, and 919 were?
>> 917.
>> We There's a lot of empties in there.
You're right. There's several in
QuickBooks. They're not in this sheet
that that the book that I made because
there's zero balances.
>> Are they inactive accounts?
>> I could look at the chart of accounts
and see if that's there. See if See if
they're inactive.
>> Hold on. Yeah. Let me um
make
>> Jeff. What? Before Eric left, you know,
the the the thorn that we have still is
finding the extra money in our budget to
finish
the transportation garage. And I'm
pretty sure that Eric said that
something happened because I think it's
because it's going to be a union that
we're going to need another $80,000 to
finalize that and and I would really
like to prioritize that and get our cars
and trucks under cover.
>> I thought the 80,000 was to put a second
story on that garage. Well, it was it
was just to change it so that it can be
open from the back and to have more room
upstairs. It's not a big deal. It's it's
just changing the trusses. I don't know
why this is
>> the meeting
>> why this is taking so long.
>> The meeting that and I had with that
that group
>> was that the original structure
was really the roof was at ground level
on the back side of that building. So
there were a lot of things that we had
to address address and we probably will
need to find some additional funding for
that.
>> Um
can this funding be taken out of the
multi-use building fund then?
I just don't want this to turn into
another year without another building
for our vehicles.
We got to if if there's that much money
Carol's saying there's $400,000 in that
thing there is
>> we should put that money
>> we should invest that money in getting
that that building done.
>> There should be around 425,000 in there.
>> Yeah. So so there's no reason why we
that building shouldn't be done.
>> Well, we have to sit there and see where
it's located currently. I mean it's
obviously the cash
>> is in our general fund. The question is
>> yes
>> where are what are all of these funds
and how do they add up as to what is the
balance in the bridge and culvert fund
what is the balance in the multi-trans
multi-use building I mean we we know
what the numbers were for last year we
just need to know if there was additions
that came through for this year
>> Murray brought this up the you know last
time this was brought up that he also
wanted to prioritize this
>> I I think all of us are probably
feeling the same way. But I this needs
to be moved ahead.
>> Well, that's the first thing that we'll
give to the project committee.
>> The first thing is that um in the last
two years,
we've gotten a lot more revenue than
what was planned.
What about two years ago? We got over $2
million more collected in taxes than
what was expected. And this past year
was almost a million over. Where'd all
that money go to? We ought to be able to
cut down on some of these capital funds.
This
>> And what do you want to do with the
money, Ann?
>> I just think that you should.
>> Do you want to spend it on education? Is
that what you're trying to tell us? Just
>> Yes. They need the money this year. And
you've got a lot of extra money that you
So you could cut back a little bit of
what you put into your capital funds and
it would cover what the school board
budget.
>> It's their turn, right? Isn't that what
they say? It's our turn. It's our turn
to get the money.
>> No, it's our money. It's all of our
money. We're one big organization.
>> I know. Yes. The town
>> their money. the town got the new senior
center and got it equipped and now
you're we're working on other things
like the pickle ball courts and getting
the
>> building and and please we did not tax
the residents to do the majority of
these things an
>> fine
>> maybe you've been missing that being on
our board
>> well I'm just saying that you've got
some money and you did you did provide a
lot of things with the taxes. You the um
public works has gotten a number of
pieces of equipment, new trucks, new
mowers.
>> What are you saying? Department
what are you trying to say and that we
shouldn't sit there and prioritize the
improvement of our equipment fleet? Are
you saying we shouldn't try to sit there
and do these things? Do you think we're
overspending? An
>> I'm not saying that. I'm just saying
that you need to now provide for the
school needs the some money this year.
They have not school could provide us
information so that we could make an
appropriate decision.
>> They haven't provided anything. I get no
information that I ask for timely with
courtesy and professionalism. It doesn't
happen. in
>> how many how many out of town students
are we paying for from from our tax
dollars? What is what are we funding for
those people?
>> Can we just get back on this budget,
please?
>> Yes.
>> The building. So, with the
>> the PL Oh my gosh, my head just went
blank. But the parking garage, please,
can we get back on that? Because I have
a question about that grant. And is
there an expiration date on that grant?
Do we have to have that project
finalized? Because we did have grant
money. I thought it was 200 and some odd
thousand towards that.
>> We have $250,000 in grant funding to pay
for that.
>> And how much more do we need?
>> Oh, we probably need the $80,000 if it
was. But but this is why Carol, we need
to go to the project committee
>> to get a good understanding of the best
way to do that building because that was
the building that Eric had gone to the
uh IQCS and I don't know the acronym
correctly, right? Uh
>> IC QC.
>> Yeah, whatever it is. And they
>> Easy IQC.
>> Yeah, easy IQC. and they did it through
the um
the standard rates and so it might be
easier, Carol, for us to sit there and
do a project. So
>> So can we just move forward with that?
We've got plenty in the multiuse
building fund.
>> Right.
>> Yeah, we can try to do it. Again, you're
100% correct. We need the balances over
on the right.
>> And Right. And if we have that and then
we can move forward. We can get that
garage finished. We can finish the
basement of the senior center
>> building is on that
>> is very simple. That building is so
simple.
>> So
can we just move forward on these
projects?
>> Anyone want to make any adjustments to
the capital funding that is going to be
presented to the board of finance?
That's all the question is.
>> So question we have the uh let's see no
that's the road improvement fund. See
tree tree removal fund. Do we have a
balance of that? And is that a that's an
L account right Lisa that we it stays it
doesn't roll into the general fund or is
that one
>> I am still trying to figure it out
Carol. I have never seen capital WS in
my life. I I think the I think the tree
removal fund honestly I think don't
>> don't you spend it don't you spend it
every year
>> I can't see where it's applied to
capital to bring down the capital when
it's spent. That's what I'm the process
I'm trying to find is when that $10,000
is spent to bring down a tree on a
$20,000 capital item. There's now
$10,000 left. Okay. We're going to find
that because uh Scott who building
>> who did Eric used Who did Eric use on
the trees?
>> Distinctive most of the time, but now
there's somebody else.
>> Now there's somebody else.
>> Um
>> J, can you look at distinctive trees and
and trace a couple of their transactions
to sit there and see where they end up?
>> Yeah. And I think they just go to do
from.
>> Oh god. So that means they're in do from
under a class.
>> I think so. Yes. And that's what I was
looking at today was the do from. Okay.
>> Why is the building maintenance fund
reduced to $33,000 a third?
>> You need to Lisa, you need to take that
account and do a
>> dissect it. That's what I
>> You need You need to do a report and
then you need to sort it by class.
>> Yeah. And I did I did this year and last
year. I did it today and it's still not
I still can't get it to tie out.
>> I'm working on it, but it just doesn't
look like the figures that we're looking
for. So, I did print both those class
reports today for this year and last
year. Um, let me just go back into a
>> Okay. Well, we'll sit there and get that
situated so the board of finance can
have any information again. Are we
sitting there looking at these budgeted
numbers, the requests, and looking to
increase or decrease any of these
requests? You got anybodyions?
Let's go. The building maintenance fund,
why was it reduced by 2/3?
>> That would have been done by the board
of finance when they were trying to
figure out how to get the budget passed
>> last year.
>> Yeah. Last year.
>> Yeah. Yep.
>> I mean, I don't know that. I'm just
saying, yeah, that's the figure that
carried over from last year. So,
>> so but the expenditures through the end
of January was 33,000 according to this.
>> No, the way they the way that she does
this this this is why contingency is the
only one of those Carol that doesn't
move 100%.
Because what the treasurer is doing is
going, okay, you've identified these
capital funds and they're all going into
the funds. So everything that got moved
100% Carol,
>> okay,
>> is in a fund and contingency is not. So
you can sit there and see how
contingency has $2,000 left on it or
only spent on it, right?
>> So that would go back into the general
fund. All of the rest of it went to the
due to due funds and is sitting in a
fund balance somewhere. it is either
sitting in its own bank account and I
don't have that information in front of
me but there are multiple different
there are bank accounts for a bunch of
these and we just need to get you the
bank balances there but what Lisa is
trying to do is Lisa is trying to try
them to the financial statements
>> right um I went into distinctive tree
care and there's there's an entry for
August for 29,750
is going to due to other funds and
20,000 is going to transfer station
grounds.
>> Okay. So, the transfer station. So,
that's the $20,000
>> must have been the grinding
>> for the grinding of the $9,000 is
related to tree service on the roads.
>> It does.
>> And that$9,000 is going against the fund
balance,
>> right?
>> There's also other tree services, uh,
Jeeoff that we use. No,
>> that's fine. It's It's um
>> I'm just looking to see
>> I can just I can just
>> Yeah, there's another one for 11,573
going to line 2500 due to other funds.
>> Yeah. And it's a class transaction
and it's in the system. It's just not as
easy to identify. It is something that
Lisa It's something that Lisa and I have
been communicating about that we need to
make it easier on her and easier for the
board of finance and easier for the
board of selectment to understand what's
there
>> more clear.
>> Yeah.
>> It's it's just it's put into a due to do
from and it's tracked by classes and
it's very difficult to sit there and
pull those classes up and see what
you're dealing with.
>> Yeah. It's not visually there right on
the front of your financial statement.
>> What I used to do is I would do a
spreadsheet and I would do it quarterly
and I would have last year's ending
balance from the from the auditors. I
would put in this year's budget. I would
put another column what spent this year
and then you'd have a a balance every
quarter of what was left. And that was
the simplest way for everybody to look
at it. And the figure I got of what was
used would be in QuickBooks.
But we had a separate company per se in
QuickBooks and I would balance to that.
I would tie it out every every quarter
and you would have a very clear picture
of what's been used and what your
balances are. And I I I'm trying to do
that for you and I'm trying to pull it
from somewhere and I'm trying to tie it
and I'm can't get it to tie yet.
>> We'll get there.
>> Y I'm saying Jeff is why is it reduced
for this year? And I'm telling you,
Scott, the board of finance reduced that
to make their budget.
>> That was last year.
>> Yeah,
>> Eric always put $100,000 in a B building
maintenance fund.
>> I understand. And we could sit there and
increase that if you want. We can sit
there and make that additional
recommendation. I don't think that's
unre unreasonable to make that
recommendation. I'm just telling you why
it happened.
>> Yeah, I know. It was unreasonable that
they reduced it.
Is that a liability or does that roll
into the general fund at the end of the
year?
>> No, that goes that again. You see how
it's the full amount already moved.
>> Okay.
>> So in column G is the amount of what is
called the expense for the year. So the
treasurer moved all of that money to the
fund.
So there is $33,000 in the building
maintenance fund from last year's
taxation. we need to provide you what
the balance is.
>> Okay.
>> So again, the only one the only
transaction that is not rolled into a
fund is contingency. And you can tell
because the amount in column G is
$2,000, not $50,000.
Okay.
>> So
that's it. That's the issue. So like
even open space, Scott, open space went
down from 50 to 10.
>> 10. Yeah.
>> Right. But I also can tell you there's
uh I mean am I 400 in there?
>> No, there's only like 275 or two 275
>> and that's not a lot of money to buy a
piece of land
>> piece of property. Yeah. Yeah. So I'd
like to up that also
>> to back to 25.
>> Can can I just ask to Lisa at the in the
clerk's office we collect the fee.
I call it the PAO9 fee and there's a
certain amount of that fee that's
supposed to go into the open space fund.
Has
do you have a way to track that? um you
know because we're we collect money at
the counter for every recording
and then I used to report report it in
an Excel spreadsheet on a monthly basis
with a breakdown as to what was the
town's amount, the state's amount.
>> Carol, that I can I can answer for Lisa
that that's not being done.
>> It's not. There's a there's See that
entry in there? just to tell you that
$10,000 entry that's in there right now
for open space.
>> Okay. Do you know what I have to look at
in here? It says $10,000
to record.
>> Okay. So, that was what we were told.
>> No, but but what Carol is asking for.
>> I'm saying this is
>> all of the revenues every time she sits
there and submits something. So, Carol,
what we have to do is we we'll work
together with you on previous previous
transactions to determine that there
there are there are multitude of those
types of things that we have to get
better at. Um, and we have to look
>> Yep.
I'm just I mean in my head that's not
the the way that deposits uh have been
allocated have not always been uh
exactly as as you or I would want them
to always be posted. So I would tell you
Carol the odds are I will give you an
overunder. I say I'll give you 20% that
they got done correctly.
So, I don't think it's very good
>> because this is money that our residents
are being taxed on 10,000 every year,
but the other revenues are non- tax
revenue. They're fees collected at the
clerk's counter
>> and they should be posted to that to the
open space fund and the open space fund
should be increasing by those fees
collected.
>> Right. And the payment in lie of open
space that we collect on subdivisions.
I'm pretty sure that is supposed to go
into open space. I'm not positive about
that.
>> But we used to collect quite a bit when
we had all those subdivisions going on.
>> And every time you bring something up,
it's something else for us to look at to
sit there and see if we can do it
correctly.
>> Again, what do we want to do with the
budget on the capital? Do we want to
raise any of those things? Scott, do you
want to make a recommendation to raise
any of these items? Do we want to sit
there and increase what we're doing here
and asking for
>> to raise the open space fund to 25,000
and put the building maintenance fund
back up to where it's supposed to be at
100?
>> Do the only thing I question on that
building maintenance. Do we have
anything that we can foresee that we're
going to need? We used to spend that
>> every year. We used to spend that out.
Done.
>> Yeah. But what Carol's asking is a
legitimate question. Does anybody
>> do we have any
I mean listen, if there was one building
in town that I would sit there with, you
know, that we need to sit there and do
some TLC to, it's the old town hall.
>> Yes.
>> The old town hall. But um
you know
>> so if we're going to increase that and
say that we're going to do that I think
that would be okay but just to increase
it
you know and not move forward with
something
I don't think is right.
>> Why we need an administrator?
>> Yeah. Can we stick on this part topic
please?
>> Yeah. Not to interrupt, but I'm going to
have to get get off here in about
another 5 minutes or so.
>> Okay. So, does anybody want to make if
Scott if you want to make those
recommendations? Are we going to make
those recommendations and vote on them?
>> I mean, because we can sit there and and
push this to the board of finance
because they're going to hammer this
anyway.
I mean, what we need to do is understand
the balances, which Rob has been asking
Lisa for. We got to get him those
numbers so he understands what's in each
one of these things. And uh
>> listen, I I have no problem if you want
to increase something that helps
>> make a motion to
>> increase the open space fund to $25,000.
>> I'll second.
Okay, I'll second it. All right, further
discussion.
And how do you vote?
I gotta hear you.
>> I can't see.
>> Which Which one was this? No, this was
>> in space.
>> No.
>> Okay. No. Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Uh Jeff Murray.
>> No.
>> Scott Person.
>> This is their turn.
>> What? give them some
>> Liz, please mute yourself for me. Um,
uh, Scott, how do you vote?
>> Hey,
you vote yes. I'll vote yes.
>> So, uh, 32.
>> Okay. Um, any others?
I I honestly sit there and Scott and say
leave the building maintenance fund till
we understand the projects.
>> I agree.
there.
>> Right. So, this one is uh $25,000.
And I'm sure I didn't make all of the
transactions up top. Um,
so this is actually where the total
numbers are currently. Is that accurate,
Lisa?
um what you have in there. Yeah, if you
just
>> I know there are a couple things in the
top I still need to address, but
>> this is um
>> it's probably
>> Yeah, mine's off a little bit from
yours, but it's it's m it's small. I've
got 9004, but we don't need to go
through it tonight. It's not much of a
difference. Um
I think
we can look at it um tomorrow.
>> Okay.
>> But I I highlighted all the changes is
long as I have your I think the only
thing I'm missing
I wanted to make sure
the mill increase I think is possibly
part of the difference because you said
to change the mill increase I mean the
um current year taxes.
So, what did you that I mean, we can
talk about it tomorrow, but I need to
know.
>> You can you can you can take the items
that we re we voted on and put them in
and resend this because I'm just showing
what I have here and I know I missed a
couple things at the beginning.
>> So, is there anything else that any of
the board members want to deal with on
the budget?
>> All right. Um,
>> the only thing
>> did want to ask and I'm sorry I I was
going too slow, but on the school
whatever that capital fund, I know that
they were putting a h 100,000 in every
year,
do you think there is enough in there to
complete that bathroom project?
>> Yes.
>> So there we have enough money on that
line to pay the whole bill. Yes.
Yes. Don't you remember when we sat
there and
>> I know it was 400 and something, but I I
also see that each well 2425 we funded
it with a h 100,000. So
I'm just asking
>> I would envision that we have enough
money in the AES capital fund to finish
the bathroom.
>> Okay. because again I I can't see a
balance and
>> once we can
>> it'll be more comfortable. So okay
>> we will we will work with the treasurer
to get those balances there. All right
so I'm skipping a lot of this to be
really honest. Uh 9B discussion and
possible action on Todd administrator
position. Um um
we have to uh I'm I'm I'm going to
communicate with everyone regarding the
candidate from New York. Um we have it's
possible um I have to speak with Scott
and Scott has to speak with him.
Right. So
that was a positive five minute
conversation.
Um,
>> thank you.
>> Yeah. And it is going to come down to um
um
it would come down to lodgings and
saving the
cost of housing. Um we'll figure that
out.
Uh
approval of minute meetings. Honestly, I
will push this I would rather push this
off to the next meeting. Yes.
>> Haven't even looked at them. Treasurers
report, I don't even want to look at it.
I've looked enough at the budget. The
tax collector's report, I don't need to
look at. I got to sit there and deal
with that. The departmental reports,
we're all good. Uh correspondence, uh is
I don't have any uh anybody else have
any other problems
or does anybody want me to go back to
any of the issues?
Okay. If not, I would uh like to go into
um public speak. Valerie Bernoff,
>> I'm all set. Jeff, just one little
technicality. On the bottom of the
document that you were just showing, it
says B O E AES S with the 7% instead of
RAM.
>> So that's just one one little
technicality.
>> Well, that was a generic Yeah, that was
a generic board of education. I mean
Okay.
>> Yeah,
>> we'll fix that. Thank you, Tuscross.
Okay, text test is on mute. We'll come
back to her. Liz Lok,
>> I'm all set. Thanks, guys.
>> All right, Joan Heert,
>> real quick. Um, I stayed on to listen
because I did want to hear what you were
going to say about the town
administrator at the end. Um, I'm not
even going to go into it, but um, hoping
that you all are coming to an agreement,
you know, on that situation soon. And I
know the process was um professional and
everybody put time into it and um you
know I I am going to chill my comment
because I really don't know what's going
on and I don't want to say anything that
I don't know have any background of but
I know you've had plenty of meetings and
good luck with that and everything else.
>> Okay. Thank you. Um, Dennis, if you're
still on, you good?
Okay, he's good. Tess GR, I'm coming
back to you.
All right, Tess just stayed on to stay
on. Um, uh, we're not going to move to,
uh, executive session. Um,
>> and I make a motion to adjurnn.
>> Second.
>> Second. All those in favor? I
>> I
>> All right. Thank you very much. Uh,
Lisa, thank you. And Scott, uh, I'm
going to call you if you don't mind.
>> Yes. Thank you, Lisa.
>> Yeah. Bye-bye.